Let me start off with some basics. First, I did experience the import bug. What does this mean? It means that I had to spend two whole minutes of my life recreating my character to look exactly like he always had. The important stuff, like the decisions, stats etc, all imported just fine. So if your time is so valuable that you can't spare the two minutes and could get angry enough to give this game only one star--get over it, then go get yourself into some anger management classes as fast as you can. You aren't the president or the Pope, and I hate to be the one to break it to you, but your time is NOT that valuable. Now, onto the game.... SPOILER FREEI'll start with the multiplayer, which I thought was a fantastic addition to the game. Surprisingly, there are people upset about this additional feature. Instead of just not playing the MP, they are getting all worked up. What a joke. Are the controls as tight as a dedicated first or third person shooter, no. Big deal. Its still a blast to play, with plenty of things to unlock and a load of characters to play that are different and give you plenty of variety. This was a good decision for EA because now folks will all buy copies so they can play with their friends, rather than buying one copy, playing it, and passing it off to their friends. A good business decision and a way for them to increase revenue AND increase enjoyment for the customer. I will point out that I don't like EA but love Bioware. EA seems to have left Bioware alone in terms of letting them make the kinds of games they want to make. Many would disagree with that, and that's their opinion.Graphics don't take a huge step forward but there is a level of polish. Nicely done overall.The characters from the first two games all make an appearance, though may not all be useable as squadmates. While I would have liked to have seen certain characters get more screen time, I can't say that this upset me too much.Voice acting for most of the characters is pretty good, but the male Shephard still feels as emotionless as he has in all the games, despite all the scenes they inserted to try and fix this problem. Its not the story, its just bad voice acting on his part.Nice variety of weapons and armor. I liked the changes from ME2 in this regard, and I like the level of customization you can do to your armor now. Another change that I didn't like in ME2 was the lack of abilities compared to the first game. They really did a good job expanding those again for ME3, so thank you Bioware; I appreciate it.Controls are pretty good most of the time, though not particularly better than ME2. Getting into and out of cover isn't smooth a lot of the time, and when you are running, you'll often grab onto cover which can be frustrating, but its not a deal breaker.I like the expanded areas and functionality aboard the ship. You can do a lot more on the Normandy than you could in the past, which is a nice addition.Some of the weapons I really didn't like, even though I did like them in the previous games. It seems that they tweaked the characteristics a bit too much in some cases. Some of the guns kick like crazy, but didn't used to. I'd point out to folks that these weapons kick far less when fired from cover, so bear that in mind. The Incisor rifle is the perfect example of a weapon I really loved in ME2. It fires a three shot burst in rapid succession. In the second game there is very little recoil between shots 1, 2 and 3. In this game, after the first shot fires, it kicks up so much that the second and third shots will often miss the target unless they are at point blank range. Again, this is mitigated somewhat by firing from cover, but my guess is a lot of players will not enjoy this rifle as much. The other example is the Argus assault rifle. A very heavy, three round burst assault rifle with terrible, terrible recoil.Overall the game makes improvements on virtually all fronts. Having said that, this game feels darker and more depressing, for obvious reasons, but that is not necessarily a bad thing. And I have noticed that a great deal of folks are upset...VERY upset about the ending. I haven't gotten there yet, so there may be an edit to my review when I get there, but at this point I'm about half way through the game and I am very happy with it. I've seen a few minor bugs, such as a few times when I am out of ammo and run over an ammo pickup and it says, "Ammo full", when I have zero, all the while I have husks or Cerberus troops bearing down on me. It got me killed a couple of times, but it was more funny than anything else and doesn't happen often.If you liked the first two games, you should enjoy this one very much, especially for those that liked the biotic characters. Although I play as a soldier, biotics have been given a very significant boost this time around, and I'm glad I got to experiment with them in multiplayer. I never liked them before but have learned to appreciate them this time around. As I said...I may be back for an edit after the end....***Review EDIT***I had originally ranked this game 5 stars, but after playing it all the way through and doing some more multiplayer, I had to knock off two stars. Here's why.....The multiplayer is very fun, but they implemented a couple of things very poorly. Here are two examples... You purchase packs that give you random things for your character, new weapons, weapon upgrades etc. On a number of occasions, it gave me the upgrade of character training, which is extra experience. The problem? My character was already at level 20, which means the experience goes out the window. They should have done a better job of not giving you something you couldn't even use! Second, it is virtually impossible to get a preferred weapon leveled up to level 10. Why? Because there are probably several dozen weapons in the game at least. Each of them can be leveled to 10. Considering you rarely get a weapon upgrade, and couple that with the chances of it actually being for the weapon you want, and you're in for some serious frustration. I have three different shotguns at level 8 and I've never even equipped them in multiplayer. They should have implemented this like they did in the campaign and it would have been much more satisfying.Lastly, the ending is as bad as everyone says. Let me be clear on this, its not because its a depressing ending, I expected that. Its because they are just...plain...bad. Badly written, horrible ideas, horrible everything. Hard to believe it was Bioware. Your choices from the games have virtually no impact, and the endings are purely nonsensical. Its very sad to see it end that way.EDIT: Update 2Bioware has done an excellent job of supporting the multiplayer mode for this game, which I applaud. They have massively increased the size and scope of this game mode, and I'm still playing it almost daily, all these months later. But they have really dropped the ball with the single player content in two ways. First, there hasn't been nearly enough. Leviathan and now today, Omega. My problem with them is the cost relative to the amount of content you get. Its 15 dollars to get Omega, which amounts to about 2-3 hours of additional game play. WAY TOO STEEP. I'll wait and see if they drop it down to 800 points, which I'd be willing to pay. But 1200 points for a few hours of play is just ridiculous.
The journey was awesome, it may not be what a lot of fans expected but considering the multiplayer aspect of this game is addicting and so much fun, free multiplayer DLC, community events, as well as the single player campaign...I can't recommend this game enough.Play it once for 20-30 hours, play it again to make different choices, play it again for yet more choices and/or different classes and strategies.The story and dialogue was moving, there were plenty of difficult decisions even for a videogame to evoke on a player, and while there were a few bugs here and there the journey was unforgettable. The ending might not be what most can comprehend or find satisfying for this trilogy but knowing Bioware is providing DLC for free soon is a great gesture.a 1 or 2 star rating clearly isn't a fair and unbias view.$29.99 deal of the day? That's a great price for a great game with lots of replayability.
"we fight or we die"there are a lot of neat things to watch for and a lot of cool quotes.i will put these in my review.one of these being a tv with a guy kind of like max headroom.some of you old timers,like myself,may remember him from the 80's.remember E.D.I.?well,now she's the sexiest robot ive ever seen in my life!she still makes me very paranoid.but thats nothing new for me and women.i keep wondering if she's just here to study us and report back to the bad guys."kill anything in our way"one problem i had was the same button that makes you run also makes you roll.so if your timing isnt just right you roll around instead of run.it can be obnoxious.but,little annoyances are heavily outweighed by the cool stuff.like dragon armor.it even has the blood dragon from the front of "dragon age:origins" on it."failure is not an option"the krogans are as dumb as ever.dismissing ideas as irrelevant proves that.they are pretty nasty too.krogan halatosis is supposed to be horrible.and figuring in all of the planets and races,it must be legendary.halatosis is chronic bad breath or death breath.commander shepherd picks up some cool moves like a skull stomp.its pretty brutal.i LOVE it!some of the things werent so great though.my favorite character,i cant say who,gets killed to get the stupid krogans to join the team.it was heart breaking.i think the replay value is still extremely high.i plan on replaying at least once .since i can import decisions from part 1 and 2,i could have a lot of fun with this series.its just hard to know who to trust through all of the tough decisions.its tricky too.sometimes you send someone to do a menial task and they get fried.sometimes nothing.you just never know."i wonder where all the good in the universe is.because its certainly not here"."this nightmare never ends"some of the characters show up as player/characters or pc's.some show up only in cut scenes.so while you may have gone through great lengths  to keep certain characters alive from mass effect 1 and 2,they may be only cameos in part 3.one of the higher ups is called "hacket".i forget his rank but really high.he always says "hack it out".he is a black guy who says he was born in london.he has a saying..................."always be in heaven at least a half an hour before the devil knows you're dead"liara uses a line from star wars:episode 3:revenge of the sith.i wouldnt have mentioned it,exept she said it during the really evil and exiting part just like the emporer."do what must be done".if you remember,that was when anakin was sent out to murder anyone who opposed the emporer.this led into the end part.this game was nicknamed "take back earth".very little of the game actualy takes place on earth.and i expected a city to city crawl.sniping aliens from big ben,using the great wall of china for cover,and using anti aircraft rifles to shootdown reapers from the pyramids.but the final confrontation was only one city long.there are many enemies .but one of the last guys i got to take out ranks right up there with officer tenpenny from gta:san andreas and lucian from fable 2 as one of the most satisfying kills of all time.this game is my prediction for game of the year 2012.it is currently my 13th  favorite video game of all time.and i am most likely going to play the entire series over and over to see what kind of neat and interesting changes i can make.so ive got my shaved head just like shepherd,my controller matches his armor,his action figure inspiring me and me N-7 cap and shirt on.and im going to TAKE BACK EARTH!again
Before you scream at me for being a 'BUTHERT WINER!!!!'(try it fanboys, i dare you), please hear me out.I loved ME1, i enjoyed ME2 (even though it was a mess story-wise), but this game killed it for me.Don't think me a whiny toddler: ME3 had some great moments, But here's the problem: THEY'RE ALL IN THE MIDDLE OF THE GAME (I'm referring of course, to the missions on Rannoch and Tuchanka). From there, it rapidly devolves into a bizarre acid trip filled with whiny emo space ninjas (well, ONE whiny emo space ninja), a mustache-twirlingly evil villain (The illusive man, that is. The mysterious anti-hero from ME2 who is suddenly the Emperor of the Galactic empire from star wars in ME3), a terrorist organization with barely a hundred and fifty members just a few months ago that suddenly has limitless troops and resources, and a heartwarming story about a little boy who just wanted to preserve all advanced life in the galaxy by killing it off.Alright, lets get our hands dirty with the ugly truth, shall we? ME3 is a bad game. The writing, the difficulty, and the pacing are all over the map, the combat is little more than a gears of war ripoff, and the ''romances'' are little more than cheap, poorly written fanservice for hormonal little preteens and gay gamers.But here, dear readers, is the unforgivable grievance, the fly in the ointment, the phantom itch on my ass as it were: None of your decisions matter in the slightest (unless you consider a series of inconsequential cameos to be ''meaningful''). Decided to save the citadel council or not? Good job, you cute little lab rat: have a meaningless cameo! Wanted Jacob in your squad? Too bad, he's off being a stereotypical n word (courtesy of the new, all inclusive EA enhanced Bioware writing! :D). Wanted Miranda in your squad? Too bad, she's off dicking around for no apparent reason. Wanted grunt in your squad? Too bad, he's off playing hero.Are you starting to see a pattern here? Everybody is off doing their own thing while the giant space Cthulhus are busy destroying civilization as we know it. Does that make sense to you?And why is Cerberus the main antagonist all of the sudden? I thought the giant flying squids with death lasers would naturally take precedence over the Neo-fascist morons. Did i miss something?The following is a series of minor grievances:Where was the exploration? I know, i know, the incredible, gravity defying refrigerator on wheels in ME1 was a bit ridiculous, but at least being able to explore planets gave the galaxy a sense of bigness. By contrast, ME3 is a painfully linear hallway shooter that scoffs at the idea of you, the player, going off on your own in any shape, fashion, or form.Space combat anyone? For those of use who played Freelancer and Star control 2, space combat was a MUST for this last installment of the trilogy. So where was it? Aren't we fighting a race of giant sentient STARSHIPS? Why is the entire game focused on the ground, where no difference can be made?I give this game a 3/10. Not just because of how bad it is, but also because of the nasty, childish reactions from certain Bioware moderators to its fans on the BSN forums. Don't expect another cent from me after THAT, you pathetic juveniles.I would also like to impart a cheerful middle finger to the ''fans'' who made us (the retake movement) all look bad by screaming like infants, and even leaving Bioware DEATH threats. Don't expect anyone to take you seriously, kiddos. At least, not until you all grow up.Let this game rot on your nearest game stores shelves. It isn't worth your time.
This was worth the full-priced pre-order.  The graphics and gameplay are top-notch and a marked improvement over the previous two entries in the series.  The story is well-told, and the multiplayer is fun and slightly addictive.  The ending wasn't as bad as I feared, but it wasn't great by any means.  Other than the multiplayer, there's hardly any replay value, and I'm sure I'll be able to find on YouTube any story updates Bioware releases to improve their less-than-stellar ending.  Definitely worth a purchase, especially at sub-$40.
This was my first time playing a Mass Effect game, which I wouldn't even be able to say if my friend hadn't bought the game and let me watch him play it.  It looked like it could be fun, so I gave it a few runs while he wasn't playing.  Luckily for me, he went home the past weekend, allowing me to take his 360 into my dorm room and finally finish the game.For those that don't like reading long reviews, I'll summarize it for you.  The storyline made me want to play the previous titles.  The gameplay didn't.Mass Effect 3 continues from the events of the last game.  That's about all I can tell you story-wise since I don't want to spoil the very little I know.  However, I CAN say the storyline is a very-well written one.  There are many different twists and turns in the plot (granted the ending is very disappointing if you don't believe in the Indoctrination Theory.....Google it), and anytime a game makes me Google bits and pieces of the story to gather more information, you know the story was an amazing one.  The style of the story-telling isn't as good as Uncharted in my opinion, but I still enjoyed it very much.What made the game less enjoyable, and a times a bit of a drag to play, was the many glitches and how it played.  There were times where Shepard's powers simply didn't work, no matter how many times I pressed the button(s) I mapped them to.  Because of this, I would, for example, try to do a Biotic Charge to replenish my shields, only to end up dying because the game isn't responding to my inputs.  Another thing that bothers me is some of the animation of the characters.  Too many times will a character turn around, but their head will decide "Nah, I'm going to stay right here", to the point where it looks like the motion of their body broke their own necks.  It doesn't happen once in a blue moon, either.  There will be times where the voices simply won't work if you skip cutscenes too quickly.  For example, if I skip a couple of the cutscenes on the final mission, the ambient noise drowns out the actual dialogue, even though the subtitles are still telling me what is being said.The gameplay feels like Gears of War, but made by amateurs.  The movement feels a bit sluggish to me, and is not as fluent as even the first Gears.  There are times where Shepard will try to vault over an object, but won't make it over (a la Battlefield 3 before the recent patch), sometimes I'll latch onto walls when I'm trying to pick up something, while looking directly at it, and it's also not painless to get away from cover.Overall, if it weren't for the story, I would've given this game a 2.5.  I think it's very disappointing that we still have companies that can't avoid simple bugs in games and it's 2012.  It's almost as if developers are going to the publishers saying, "The game is playable, but there still are a few bugs that we have yet to fix", and the publisher responds, "PERFECT!  Start shipping the game", eagerly waiting for their bank accounts to increase.  It's not a horrible case in Mass Effect 3 (I'm talking to you, Resistance 3), but that doesn't mean I'm willing to let it slide.  But because the gameplay isn't horrid, and the story is simply amazing, I can't help but give it four stars.  If you're new to the series, I'm sure you'll enjoy it as much as I do; even more if you're a fan of RPG games/games with RPG-elements.  I'm not a huge fan of them, but I still really like this game.
This will be short, and I will not go into great detail about the single player, suffice to say that it is beyond wonderful and amazing.  I too was one of the folk who could not import my Shep's face from ME2, however I DO NOT allow a tiny annoyance to ruin my game experience in that I write a 1 star review...I digress.  The single player is amazing...the multiplayer is surprisingly fun...I did not think I'd end up getting this game release date, but I went for it anyway.  I do not regret it in the least and I recommend to all those sitting on the fence about whether or not to purchase the game - go for it!  It's worth the money.
Why do people bash an entire product because it didn't end the way they wanted it to???  Did they want a cliche and forgetable happy ending? I thought the ending was epic and sad.  Reminds me of when Lost had a great, yet sad ending that everybody bashed the entire season for.Mass Effect 3 is a great game, improving on Mass Effect 1 and 2.  The story flows smooth, and using the galaxy map is improved for easy use.  The multi player is fun and challenging, though with only 1 game mode can get repetitive.
I have nothing against companies trying to protect their intellectual property with mechanisms like Online Pass, but please make it work for the people who actually buy the game. For the second time in a row purchasing a new copy of an EA game, my Online Pass code is invalid. The last time, it was a new PS3 copy of Bulletstorm that came with invalid code now it's an Xbox 360 version of Mass Effect 3. This makes me seriously think twice about buying any EA product, especially one with any online multiplayer component.
This has to be one of the best games out there. I have played the Mass Effect series since the first game came out,and I am absolutely glad that I did. The whole trilogy created a wonderful experience. You get to meet great characters, find out more about a huge storyline, and even create meaningful relationships within the game. Moreover, the game has many action RPG and shooter based concepts. I love it. I am not particularly a fan of turn based rpg though I have played many. Mass Effect really changed that. In the third installment, you can even customize further. For example, if you do not want to worry about being able to aim and shoot, you can play the "story" mode which focuses more on you and the story and the choices that you must make. If you like more of a shooter, choose the action mode. If you would like the whole rpg experience, choose the mass effect rpg mode. They did an outstanding job at keeping it genuine for fans that have played the series while making it easy for new gamers to get into the actionThe galaxy exploration was greatly improved. You do not have to suffer with all the mako hard terrain experiences or the endless planet probing. Moreover, you are free to make paragon and renegade choices and still manage to improve your reputation. You are no longer tied to being an extreme paragon or extreme renegade. I have played both a full renegade and paragon in Mass Effect 1 and 2, and sometimes, it felt like you were forced to either be too good or be too bad. In Mass Effect 3, you can mix it up. DO WHAT YOU FEEL LIKE DOING.The action/shooter elements are great while keeping true to rpg elements as well. There is a lot of customization, and do not forget the awesome interactive narrative story. It feels awesome to be able to choose how you want to react and to see how people react to you.A lot of people seem to be upset because of the endings. Yes, the endings may leave people with many questions left unanswered, but you can still manage to get important characters to live, and the game leaves the story left for lots of interpretation. While I do agree that it could have been better executed, the endings should not undermine everything else that made the game great.You will learn to love, care, enjoy the experience. You forge relationships that are important since the first game. They have done a great job at expanding those relationships/friendships, and despite what people say, your choices will still matter. Will you betray a friend in order to gain military support for your dying people? Will you kill an entire civilization to prevent your own extinction? There's a lot to think about, and if you really have put time to discover the experience within all the games, all choices will matter. Mass Effect 3 has done a great job at putting together a huge story that no other game has ever done. The fact that you can carry your original character and choices is by itself something that not all games can say they have done.*********SPOILER*************Do not be swayed to give up on this game simply because the endings were not completely executed properly or because some people failed to make your hero and friends survive. Shepard and the crew are able to live. He/she does not die in all the endings.In Summer 2012, there will be an extended cut to the ending. Friends who went to PAX east said that it seems that it will be more than just cutscenes. It is going to allow the gamer to expand further based on their choices.
Some people were angry with the final of this game, but, the game  is really good, you will enjoy it from begining to end.
I loved the original Mass Effect and played through it six times, sometimes at higher difficulty settings with the same character, othertimes with entirely new characters. It was a game that provided an epic experience, relatively deep role playing, and cover based shooting that was fun and engaging.Mass Effect 2 was a good game but with it Bioware had thrown the baby out with the bathwater. It was a different game, really, more an action adventure than an RPG. It tried to focus more on characters and on an overarching storyline and less on individual quests. It felt muddled and incohesive to me.Mass Effect 3 falls somewhere in between the two previous games I guess, with more RPG elements then Mass Effect 2 but with a feel that is still more action adventure than RPG. Bioware has replaced RPG elements in both 2 and 3 with strategy elements. It's not about completing quests for the their own sake as much as completing them to build up a meter or accumulate NPCs so you can beat an end boss.What the Mass Effect series loses, in my opinion, by changing the focus from RPG to a shooter/strategy hybrid is a focus on great level design. By replacing smaller environments that seemed larger then life in the original game with much bigger, more generic environments, the sequels lose the tactical elegance that comes with carefully crafted levels.But beyond that, Mass Effect 3 has a cast of characters that just isn't exciting. Sure, Mordin is awesome and Garrus is pretty good, but Krogans are like the tired, ,old Klingons of Star Trek. And while the story seemed original back when the first game came out it nows feels tired and overdone, not to mention convoluted and kind of ridiculous.Mass Effect 3 isn't a bad game but I don't think it's a great one either. If you have to know what happens next, I guess you don't want to miss out on it but I found myself unable to even finish it. I made it half way through and just decided it wasn't worth my time or the effort.
Forget the naysayers that gave this game bad reviews based on the ending.This game, and series is not all about the ending, but the entire experience.  In all my years of gaming, and movie-watching, NEVER have I enjoyed a story, or cast of characters more than I have with Mass Effect.Commander Shephard is, in my opinion, the greatest character in video games, and maybe even movies.  I enjoyed playing as Shepard, and through three games, I really became connected to the character.  The supporting cast is nearly as interesting, with Garrus in particular accopanying me on every mission.Now, Mass Effect 3 truly brought the series to a climax, and I personally had no huge problems with the end.  It's true that some things really weren't answered or explained in the end, but that is being addressed in DLC, which is out now actually.In short, if you want to experience EXCELLENT 3rd-person combat, and absolutely incredible, absorbing story, a truly memorable cast of characters (better than Star Wars in my opinion), beautiful graphics, the total package really, then get all three Mass Effect games.  If you don't have 150-180 hours to kill, then get Mass Effect 3.This game stayed in my Xbox tray for 4 straight months.  I only ever took it out when my 4 year old daughter wanted to play a Kinect game.Hands down, my fondest memories in gaming will be found in my experiences in the Mass Effect universe, and with Commander Shepard's adventures.  Sure, Skyrim is right up there, but that game lacks the memorable characters of this game/series.Do yourself a favor, if you love gaming and Sci-Fi, get this game/series.  You won't regret it. When you finish it/them, form your own opinion.  But I can honestly say this...no game...NO GAME has EVER made me feel such a broad range of emotions while playing and advancing the story as much as this one.  Without question.  THAT is what I want from my gaming experience.Thank you Bioware.  You have done what NO other company has done.  You made me forget I was playing a GAME at times.That is huge.  I will never forget my experiences playing this, and if I could give 100 stars, I would.Best game I have ever played.  Period.  Buy it.
I loved the Mass Effect series, including ME3 up until the final conclusion.  The ending represented an epic failure rather than an epic conclusion.  It was not worthy of the massive story that went into it.Good:-Finally got the right balance between RPG elements and combat.  Inventory management is not the same issue from ME1 yet still fleshed out more from ME2.-Several (but not all) characters seem to have grown into what should have been the epic conclusion to this story.  Those characters make up for the otherwise flat cameos and extras-Multiplayer is fun and not bogged down by PvP competition.  The only way to win is to cooperate.Bad:-Readiness Assets make no sense.  How in the world does one find a friendly fleet just hanging out on the surface of a planet?-The ending.  Pure and simple.  I feel massively let down with what appears to be a rushed ending.  So many characters that were developed so deeply and so many species engaged in the same struggle, only to have a decidedly "blah" ending.  I would have gladly waited another 6 months or year for a fully realized ending instead of this mess.If I had not already collected ME 1 and 2, I would have rented rather than bought this.
Q: Are the days of me buying a game on day one over?A: Yes.Apparently, most games these days are just not ready when they're released.I'm basically very understanding of bugs and glitches. Games are often extremely ambitious and massive in scale. There are bound to be conflicts and problems. I get it. For example, I didn't complain about the bugs in Skyrim. It's a complex game and the programming bugs where of a complex nature - they did, however, get the BASICS right and they were solid from the start.In the case of Mass Effect 3, the BASIC ability to import your character doesn't work. It's not only the very first option offered in the game, it's literally one of the keys to the game. Mass Effect, as true fans know, is meant to be an immersive continuing story with characters and a universe that the player is meant to care about and become invested in - especially Commander Shepard. I mean what's more important then the player's identity in the game?The ability to import your Shepard was promised and NOT delivered. (Sorry, you get stars taken off for that.) Of course, we all know they can do it since they did it in ME2. We also know that accomplishing this ability requires only the most rudimentary and BASIC programming skills. Was it that they just didn't care? Really, look at everything else they are accomplishing in the game, only to have blown a simple yet important detail like this. It needlessly drags the game - probably a brilliant five star game - into average status - at least for the time being.They will probably fix this. I hope. I'm sure there's a first grader around that might have time to fix it after school or something. (I mean it's essentially just graphics that have been assigned a numerical value, then transferring these numbers and graphics from their own software saves to their own software.)The game and its true fans deserve better.
I love this series.  Playing it through first to third is an amazing experience.The first time through, I liked the ending. Yes, it's an abc choice, but they make sense depending on how you play your Commander.The graphics are breathtaking, and I love being able to romance the same people from prior games.  Combine that with the FPS elements, this is just a good conclusion to the trilogy.
My experience seems to be the opposite of so many other people here loving the game until the end part.  For me, that ending would've bumped this game from a 3 star to a 5 star for me.  But the other problems with gameplay and dialogue are just too much to fully ignore.Me, I was horrified and appalled by the demo, which had some awful dialogue and that stupid contrived kid thing with Shepard.  But looking back, I think the dialogue has always been this kind of average/below average since the first game, and I only started noticing now.  I may have missed the fact due to my shouting my own dialogue at the screen, which I think is better, and I know is wittier.***********I do realize the ending is controversial, but I never had any idea it would cause such a vicious backlash amongst reviewers.  Personally, I loved it, yet it's also frustrating because it's the end, with no further explanation, and yet I love it because it's left like that without a whole lot of pointless explanation.I don't think the ending alone is worth people giving it 1-star and complaining so loudly, and I don't know why they'd be complaining so viciously about it.Since gameplay is my biggest problem, I'll start with it:I'd like to start by thanking the in-game war criminal and enemy of all sentient life who thought it was a good idea to get rid of guns that had INFINITE AMMO with a brief few seconds to vent heat, with a new system of SEVERELY LIMITED AMMO with heat sink clips, because they make "clicky noises now!  CLICKY NOISES!!!!"This had existed since Mass Effect 2, but it's exacerbated in this game, as bullets do far less damage against enemies that are souped up as thick as Gears of War steroid guzzlers, and some wearing armor so insanely thick and heavy, they literally need engines in their suits just to manage the tremendous weight.  An entire clip from an assault rifle can't even take down the most basic, low-level foot soldiers anymore.  I've literally found myself in situations where I ran out of ammo (THANK YOU AFOREMENTIONED WAR CRIMINAL; I'LL SEE YOU IN COURT AFTER THE WAR) and ended up dead, or having to rush enemies and pop them in the head repeatedly, or distract them with biotic powers while scouring for heat sinks around the barely visible map.And of new gameplay features; the cover-based combat takes on a new importance with the insanely high armor and insanely low weapon damage, as well as with new options allowing you to roll around.  I have never encountered a situation where this roll has not been a detriment or served no purpose other than to botch my attempt at hitting cover, and instead roll against the cover, and stand back up out in the open.  Similar such rolls from cover to cover provide a great way to go nowhere in the middle of a firefight or get caught in a near-infinite loop because you're too clumsy to handle the controls to get out of rolling around back and forth, or just awkwardly stepping back.  This stupid roll system has even caused me to stop sprinting through most levels, because I will get caught in corners from an unintended roll, and end up smacking against it into cover.THEN COMES the end of the game... We all lose, Earth and then the entire galaxy is destroyed, and everyone loses... because Shepard is too stupid to jump or climb a weird-looking pile of debris.Okay, so that's not really the end, but that was the first time in the entire Mass Effect series, even ahead of the first game's sloppy ground rover, that I had to re-load a save because I got stuck.Mild spoiler:On London, after clearing out the Reaper forces as part of the mission to take out a Hades cannon to secure landing ground for Hammer, I come across that cracked-open building, with the empty bookcase in front of me and the fire on the right.  After I found the chest-high wall to get up on, and it plays the cutscene of my shuttle being shot down, I somehow fell off that height, back to where I started.And I could not get back up.  There was no chest-high wall to crawl over, and I could not jump or climb atop the small debris pile to get back up to that position.  I spent a full 10 minutes wandering around trying to find a way around before reloading, and realizing that the game REMOVES the chest-high wall after this cutscene, meaning "*** YOU IF YOU SLIP OFF - Love Bioware"Leading up to the ending, nothing in the story impressed or inspired me.  I could barely gather up enough interest or care to do most of the side missions, most of which were incredibly short (thankfully) and involve a lot more loading than actual gameplay.  Other main storyline missions seemed to lead me around in circles, with no real plan other than "Do this, bend over backwards, and do a flip for this shady criminal person so that they will pledge support for the final assault".  And so early on they dug up a Big Magic Macguffin in the form of a magical superweapon that we JUST DISCOVERED RIGHT NOW to completely wipe out all the Reapers, maybe.Another new feature that I thought would serve some purpose is a SUPPORT system in dialogue.  At random areas, two people will be arguing, usually about some ethical or moral or legal issue, and you have the option to support one or the other and end the argument.  Some of them seemed to be important, and potentially have an effect on the end-game (such as whether to triage wounded more harshly due to the potential of dwindling medical supplies) but ultimately don't.Another part of the story that frustrated me was the stupid DREAM SEQUENCES!  I won't say anymore on them, because they aren't that frequent and they're not a huge nuisance.Another issue I have involves bugs and glitches.  Compared to the previous two games, this one is loaded with lots of odd glitches and bugs.  Very frequently the game has frozen during loading sequences (compared to Never with the last two), and I've had triggers either fail to start (such as on Thessia, when the Asari told me to man the mounted gun, then after I kill everything, nothing happens, and the Asari captain keeps screaming for me to man the gun, even though nothing is coming at us) or be delayed long enough for me to think something has gone wrong.And the music; up until the ending, I barely noticed it.  I thought it was weak and insignificant, a huge step down from the previous games, the way Modern Warfare 3's music was barely-there compared to Hans Zimmer's work in Modern Warfare 2.But then there's the ending...I won't spoil it, but I spent an entire hour just playing through all possible endings, shocked and awed and every other stockphrase for blown away and shaken.  For those who've already played it, I ultimately went with the middle choice, the one with the beam and the green light.The ending was something utterly colossal and phenomenal.  It was ascensional, if that's a real word, and if not, then I make it a new word.  It was the sort of event that doesn't just change things forever like an "Independence Day" type ending, but completely changes everything for everyone forever.  It reminded me a lot like the endings of "2001: A Space Odyssey" and the book sequel.  The next stage of sapient life.And that epilogue was something.  It makes me wonder about what happened with the Normandy at the end, the Mass Relays, and who is Buzz Aldrin's Stargazer?!  And what stories does he have to tell about The Shepard?
After spending more than 100 hours, I finally finished this game tonight. I enjoy every moment of this game from the beginning to the end. There is a feeling of hopelessness and desperation that pervade throughout the whole game. The characters' emotions are conveyed so well in this game, such that I actually can feel the brutality of losing loved ones and homes. It makes me root for Sheppard and all his beloved companions, and hope that despite all their hopelessness, the best will eventually come to them. I spent 100+ hours on this game because I kept reloading cut scenes that I felt emotional about; and kept retrying different dialog options to see different outcomes. Yes, I love this game so much that I just don't mind reloading my saved games again and again.I played with the Extended Cut DLC, so I don't know what the ending was like before that DLC. With the Extended Cut DLC, I found my ending very satisfactory (I choose the Synthesis Ending). I just can't understanding how anyone could give this game one star because of the ending (this game is very well made, through and through). Maybe those people have misunderstood the ending or wasn't able to follow the story line, but even so, giving this game a single star just because they don't understand or like the ending doesn't make sense to me.For the people who claim that the developer 'lied' and that their previous choices don't matter in this game, I can give lots and lots of examples to show that previous choices of ME1 and ME2 DOES MATTER. Many old friends from previous games appear in this game and influence the story lines, and your previous decisions affect whether some of your old friends live or die. Moreover, you can save an entire race from extinction if you do things properly on previous games.I have never felt so emotionally invested in a video game before; this is the first time for me. Thanks for making such a great game!
Multiplayer is not included when you buy this game used. I thought this game was nice but the ending wasn't that good in my opinion. Overall a pretty good game.
Mass Effect Trilogy:I played each of the previous games more than one time, and I used my favorite Shepherd character--one whose every choice the whole series has been Paragon--to play this game. I felt that past choices mattered enough to make me glad I had imported my character. I love that the relationships from both other games are built on.Gameplay:It feels a lot like the second game, but the interface has been made just a hair more friendly. Controls are fantastic once you're used to them. The squad commands work well, and I made use of my squad's powers all the time. The guns are good, and I adored a few of the more expensive weapons. I also thought the gun modifications worked very well in this game.Ending Scenes:The ending was a hard choice because one can't easily weigh what is right or wrong, especially if they are like me and attempting to follow Paragon. Due to one earlier choice that many will not make the same way I did, I felt that there was no "right" choice. However, I was happy with the conclusion (I got what most people refer to as the "best" conclusion since I completed the game entirely), even though it wasn't very warm and fuzzy; however, if you watch through the credits after you beat the game, at the end is a small, warm and fuzzy little scene.Verdict:Buy it. It rocks my socks off.
No sense in rehashing what has been said already about the ending and how it ruined everything.My only other critiques of the game have to do with:The poor coding of the game (there were many glitches and having to change between the two cds 13 times over the course of the game is just infuriating, and the camera angles in general were detrimental)Relative uselessness of the RPG aspect of the game (If you are like me and have a very specific style of gameplay, most of the mods, weapon varieties, power development, and armor types had no perceptible impact on the gameplay but were just eye candy)Shattered atmosphere of "All organic life will be ended" (Having no time penalties for wandering around the universe launching probes to planets, the ending, and how you go about getting supplies as you would think when the universe really starts going down the drain the most elite team in the galaxy would be handed the best hardware)Overall, don't let this game give you a shoulder massage of death...
What do you consider the greatest game you've ever played? When this timeless question is asked, well-deserving titles like the original Super Mario Bros., Half-Life and The Legend of Zelda are often mentioned. It then, of course, sparks a perpetual debate about what sort of prerequisites must be met to be considered among gaming's most elite. However, sometimes an anomaly approaches with substance and quality that are simply unmatched in virtually every category of contemporary gaming. Sometimes a game just needs to be experienced to be fully understood and appreciated. That's the kind of game BioWare has delivered with Mass Effect 3.A few years ago, when Mass Effect 2 hit store shelves, I was so impressed with it that I didn't think it'd be possible to outshine its incredible, refined mechanics - I was wrong. From start to finish, ME3 is an absolutely captivating tale about love, loss, hope and hate. The decisions you've made, the people you've met, everything you've accomplished in the previous games comes full-circle and there's no turning back now. I know it sounds like I'm blowing ME3 up here, and that's because I am.As you've come to expect, the strongest point in the series is located within the narrative. Having been fully invested since the very first game, I can say that BioWare's uncanny skill at weaving an intricate story cannot be commended enough. Ostensibly, ME3 is about an alien force who wants to eradicate the galaxy because they can, but it's far more than something so seemingly bland. ME3's situations, dialogue and personality behind every character is what makes every drop of interaction so meaningful as these scenarios expand the story itself. What do the Reapers want? Why do they perform this 'cycle' every 50,000 years? The conclusion is shocking, but do yourself a favour, if you haven't played any previous Mass Effect games - don't start here.One of the key points BioWare has made about ME3 is the major decisions you've made in the past. The good news is that these choices are a huge factor and definitely influence the way your game will play. For instance, if you're unfortunate enough to have certain characters die off from the first game, you'll miss some monumental cut-scenes and classic dialogue that relates directly to the central plot. More impressive though, is how minor characters and unimportant people you interact with influence your surroundings. On more than one occasion I found myself speaking to someone I helped during a routine mission in the previous games. Even your teammates name drop characters, giving the game a much more dynamic feel.Speaking of being dynamic, ME3 sports the best cut-scenes I've ever witnessed. Characters move around the rooms they're in, commit to different facial animations, look around and touch objects, it's practically like watching a movie. The game also brings back the excellent dialogue interruptions and, as usual, they're always fun to perform. Although, the thing I'm most appreciative of definitely has to be the humour buried within such a dire narrative. It's largely in part to Garrus and EDI, but there's some other characters who said and/or did various things that had me laughing throughout the game's duration. ME3 is the new gold-standard for creative and intelligent cut-scenes.The jump from Mass Effect to ME2's combat system was huge, and in a lot of ways the jump is also quite large into ME3. The same systems are largely intact, but the combat in general has been tuned to the point of perfection. Headshots are now possible, cover is no longer a chore to navigate and a brand new physics engine has been instituted, making it incredibly satisfying when ending your adversaries' lives. The guns are also fun to use and feel great, letting a variety of superb sounds escape when fanning the trigger. Playing as an Adept, I didn't use too many weapons as my biotics were my primary tool of chaos, but even they created some wondrous, satisfying explosions. Melee combat has also been tweaked and depending on your class you'll be able to deploy an Omni-Blade or just straight up channel your biotic energy into some kind of super-punch. It's pretty awesome.In direct relation to the gunplay, BioWare has heard the call for more customisation ala the original ME. Unlike ME2 which literally had just a handful of weapons, ME3 employs a long list of well over 30 unique guns. While I thought they'd all be similar in a way, I took the time to fire each one and they most certainly are all one of a kind. The cool thing about this, besides the variety, is that now any class can use any weapon without restriction. Want to be a shotgun-wielding Adept with a backup sniper rifle? Go for it. Then again, the new weight system might have you hold back some of your crazy ideas.The weight system is pretty simple, but adds some extra depth to certain classes. To put it simply, the more guns you bring to battle, the higher your cooldowns for your abilities will be. As an Adept, I'd switch my weapons around just for an occasional change, but I usually rocked a heavy pistol of some sort. By only carrying this, along with my upgrades, my power cooldowns reached the bonus cap of +200%, making it possible to spam my moves in many situations. However, if you're more of a gun person you can modify every single weapon in the game with a multitude of different devices. Making your gun lighter, more accurate, having it deal more damage, the ability to see through smoke, punch through cover, there's a ton of options to choose from and whatever you decide to augment is also reflected in the model itself. That's right, say this scope you found makes your gun more accurate, simply attach it at a work bench and your gun will now have a physical scope on it.I always found the talent systems for the first two Mass Effect games a little off-putting. I didn't like how you had to pump so many points into things you didn't actively use or, in ME2's case, how you couldn't reach the maximum level in most of your skills. ME3 fixes all of these issues, giving you six different tiers of each ability with multiple choices of how you want to build them along the way. There's also bonus powers you can attain by conversing with your squad mates and if you felt like you screwed up somewhere, there is a reset switch for all your talents. I swear, it's like they've thought of everything.Great as everything is, some may find the more condensed character roster a bit disappointing. Even if all of your squad members survived the suicide mission in ME2, you really never get to use them as you did in the past. At first it might seem like a crime to omit such interesting and compelling characters, but once you begin meeting back up with your old friends you'll come to appreciate the way BioWare has re-instituted them. Since the galaxy is dealing with the Reapers on every homefront, it only makes sense that all your friends can't be chilling with you aboard the Normandy. Yes, yes, it's too bad you can't get Wrex back into your squad but believe me when I tell you that his constant appearances, cinematics and dialogue more than make up for it.It may also come as a sort of shock, but ME3 doesn't contain any mini-games whatsoever. There's no more locks that need picking, servers that need hacking or planets that require hours of probing. Actually, the scanner and probe system do make a return but it's been entirely overhauled. Instead of scanning random planets for their resources ala ME2, ME3 gives the Normandy a new pulse aura.Upon entering a new system, you can tap a button and the Normandy will unleash a radial pulse that reveals important areas in that section. If a planet is highlighted you can then perform a scan on it, but there's only ever a single item per planet and there's a compass that tells you exactly what direction it's in. If you use this pulse while in a Reaper controlled sector though, they can invade the system and come after you while you're looking for items. All this means is that there's a demonic robot noise, the things come in after you and if you want to survive then you need to just exit the map. I get BioWare's trying to represent the invasion, but it's far too easy to evade the Reapers and even if they do catch you the game just reloads upon your entrance to the system. You lose, maybe, 10 seconds of your time. Harsh, I know.The big new feature for the campaign is the focus on war assets or what you're bringing into the final confrontation. As you progress through the game you'll convince those around you to commit to fighting the Reaper threat. As you discover various objects, complete missions and recruit people to join the fight, your asset number increases. These assets also increase a bar that displays your effective military strength to combat the Reapers. It's not hard to fill the bar up, but if you're one of those people who don't like to burden yourself with completing every little thing in the game, you can jump into the multiplayer to help increase your assets.Multiplayer? In my single-player game? Believe it. Actually it's not at all that bad. Galaxy at War is a four-player co-operative experience that pits you against waves of enemies (where have I seen this before?). Its emphasis relies heavily on good teamwork and the combat in ME3 is good enough to make the mode worth checking out. Sure, it has its fair share of problems with imperfect hosting and feeling extremely grindy after a while, but its sole purpose is to serve as a minor distraction. At least playing the multiplayer nets you campaign bonuses to make it feel more worthwhile. Completion of maps grants a percentage increase in your efficiency rating, which effectively means your bar for the final confrontation will gain a multiplier. Again, it's not necessary to play the multiplayer to get the best endings to the game, but it's nice to have something as a decent distraction from the main story.Mass Effect 3 is a master-class in story-telling that comes second to none. Its refined combat, deeper customisation and personable characters make the experience worth it from start to finish and that goes double for the people who've been with the series from day one. While it may be the final entry in the trilogy, you can bet that this isn't the last we've seen of Mass Effect 3. So grab your gear, sit back and enjoy one of the best games of this generation.This review was written for gamersguidetolife.comEnjoyed the article? Follow me on Twitter/infestedandy
Great game and series that all gamers should check out. The Action mode and Story mode ways to play should appeal to all.
an RPG trilogy based on "choices" imposes an ending where none of your choices made over 3 games make ANY difference???? insulting and amateurish....and makes any replays difficult, since you know you have to endure the stupidity of the ending, yet again
This game ends the story of Shephard. I love the story line, it was a little disappointing at the end but all in all, a great game. I will play this game over and over.
This game is one of my favorites and a great way to end the Mass Effect Trilogy.  Amazing story, amazing ending and amazing gameplay.  This game I recommend for anyone that loves RPG style games and doesn't mind third person shooters.  There is a ton of customization and many different outcomes. Such a fantastic game.
The best part of the Mass Effect series is the story and the characters, but here the story is confusing and the new characters are lame. Shepherd's goal is to defeat the Reapers by recruiting scientists to assemble an unfinished weapon. But he also gets the alien races to send their space fleets to earth. The other races are bogged down on their own planets fighting the Reapers; the Turian homeworld is just as devastated as earth. Why would the other races sacrifice themselves to save human beings? It doesn't make sense.Eventually you meet the Reaper's creator and he explains their origins. This was the most disappointing part of the story because what he says is nonsense. If the Reapers were designed to bring order to the universe, then why not exterminate all organic life? Why allow organic life to keep reemerging? That way you'd have permanent order. And if organics and synthetics are destined to war, then why do the Reapers need to intervene? Wouldn't the organic-synthetic conflict resolve itself without the Reapers? The Reapers are just another part of the organic-synthetic conflict (being hybrids) and should therefore commit suicide.What made Mass Effect 2 great was the memorable cast of characters it introduced: The Illusive Man, Thane, Legion, Grunt, Miranda, Jacob and Mordin. Mass Effect 3's new characters are lame by comparison. There's IGN bubblehead Jessica Chobot as a reporter, James Vega, a Japanese samurai villain and an obnoxious British lesbian who tells you when you've got email. It's hard to believe that the same people who came up with great characters like Legion and the Illusive Man couldn't do better than this. The characters that I liked from the previous game (Legion, Thane, Grunt) are unplayable and some of them die. You only get six squad mates this time around, but the only one I liked was Garrus. Ashley Williams is back, but who cares?Gamers complaining about the ending have short memories - Shepherd "died" twice in ME2 so I'm sure Bioware can resurrect him again. The problem is not Shepherd's fate, which is open-ended. It is the plot holes, lame squad mate selection, forgettable new characters and the confusing story.
Yup, that's right. I bought this for the multiplayer. Its the second time, as I bought it when it was released to see the end of the trilogy but after my Xbox was stolen earlier in the year and I had no way to retrieve my prior saves. The disappointment of finishing the story with a different Shepherd game me a bad taste in my mouth for any single player DLC or anything, but I have been shocked at how long my friends have kept playing this game on multiplayer after so long on XBL. So I got it again on the cheap to play with them. I have to admit, it has long legs for a &#34;horde mode&#34; style mp game. If you and your friends like leveling up, getting unlockable goodies, and respond to gambling (that's right, the whole you don't know what you get until you unlock it gag feels like pokemon or something, and is addictive to people who go for such things)
I'm rating ME3 with one star ,not for the fact that it's a terrible game ,no in fact it's a great game if anything it's inferior to it's predecessor. But the main reason I'm rating it 1 star ,it's because the conclusion of the story is a raw insult to the thousands of fans who eagerly awaited this moment for a long time. After having invested a lot of money on the games and DLCs ,as well as hundreds of hours of game play ,just trying to twitch every part of the games to get the most out the story ,after all that I'm extremely disappointed and angry at EA and Bioware ,apparently they decided to give us loyal fans one of the worst possible endings you could give to an amazing story like this.I will keep the 1 star rating until they give me complete closure to the full story and an ending worthy of the series. Having read Bioware's blogs and other info websites, I came to the conclusion that this current ending was probably all part of a marketing experiment from Bioware just to get people talking, according to them they did not want the game to be forgettable (and so far they have succeeded!) I read many articles about this ,but one of them specifically caught my attention, when an angry disappointed fan asked them ; "Is that it ,that's all the story for commander Shepard?" they answered ; "Hardest. Day. Ever. Seriously, if you people knew all the stuff we are planning...you'd, we'll - hold onto your copy of me3 forever." "We caaan't say more" This all meaning that they were planning all of it from day one ,and they are planning to give the complete ending through DLC, like many of you I'm extremely disgusted with the ending of the game and I think it's not worthy of the series, but I for one will give them a chance to redeem themselves ,I want to see what they hold for us in the upcoming DLCs in April ,if they fail to deliver once again then this rating will simple stay as it is.Why would I give them a chance at all? Well many people don't know what it takes to make a game like this ,it takes endless hours of work and requires a lot of sacrifices and if they actually do what I'm hoping they will do ,well I'd say that is worth giving them a chance. There's a theory circulating around the web , that the almost identical current endings are not the real ones and that supposedly all the events from the last minutes are happening in Shepard's mind ,allegedly he is fighting indoctrination from the Reapers (represented by his last actions in the endings) and that the supposed "FULL" ending it's coming in the DLCs. Now ,I really have no idea if this if this assumptions are accurate ,though they seem quite reasonable given the current facts and having seen what EA's greediness is capable of (by charging extra for DLC),the pieces seem to fit together and as much as I'd like to say that I will not be paying for extra for DLC ,I think I'd be lying because all I ever want is closure to the story.I know that some people would call me a whiner and spoiled because I demand a better ending and closure to the series ,but after 5 long years of waiting and hundreds of hours of gameplay ,I just find it hard to accept when Bioware wants to give us a pile of steaming crap as reward. I don't really know what people who are satisfied with the current ending must be thinking, perhaps they're not as passionate as I am towards the series , but I personally hate the ending in this game and I think that such extraordinary story deserves a better one. I really doubt that someone who has played the 3 games (and has paid full price for them) will be content with the current ending, if they are ,then they belong to the 1% . I've also seen a few internet reviewers that think we are making a big deal out of this ,well of course they don't actually have to pay from their pocket to play the games ,we do ,they do not have that same sense of loss that the rest of us have and seriously I don't care if someone gets bothered by me complaining or by my rating ,put as much negative feedback as you want in my review , I will not change the rating ,I will keep it for as long as it takes until Bioware and EA give me what I paid for, I know that giving one star rating to a game in protest may not seem like much ,but the internet and people united seem to be doing wonders now in days.So you can either buy it right now if you are optimistic or wait til they release the DLC with the complete ending or until the price drops.
First of all, I got the game timely and it was in good condition. As for the game itself, I held off completing the ending until Bioware added the ending DLC. I'm satisfied with the difference to the ending and how they seemed to listen to most of the complaints from gamers. Up until the ending ME3 was amazing. I loved everything about it until I watched the original endings. I haven't been a fan for as long as most, only came in around ME2 but from that, I was still accustomed to complex storytelling and having my actions have consequences. The original ending seemed like a cop-out. The DLC still wasn't what I wanted or expected but it had enough variety from the original that I don't have anything to gripe about. I can respect Bioware for fixing the mistakes, but that DLC should have been a part of the game from the beginning.
ME3 is not RPG. It is a super linear boring corridor shooter.I have not seen much improvement since ME2.
This game refined the already wonderful game play of Mass Effect 2. It's a blast all the way through. The story is great, though I'd recommend stating with ME 1 or 2 because its great for the things it does with the characters that have been building over time.It is small step below the endlessly memorable Mass Effect 2 but a solid game in its own right. The characters that have grown with you through the trilogy continue to develop and have the pay offs they've been building to. The very end of the game has issues but its not the only end. Throughout the entire game characters and areas meet conclusions and its completely satisfying.The multiplayer mode is more of an afterthought but its surprisingly enjoyable. Not a reason alone to buy the game but a fun mode to check out.
This game flat out is one of the best games EVER. One of the best series EVER. The story, the depth, and the time you put into and the satisfaction is second to none. For all the bad reviews you read please ignore them or you'll be missing out on one of the best games of all time. The ending was the ending people get over it. This is the Saprano's ending all over again. People whine and complain about the ending but spent 6-7 years playing the series and loving every second of it so how about you appreciate the time you've spent and stop whining.BUY THIS GAME NOW!!And if you haven't played the other 2 do yourself a favor and buy those as well, you wont be disappointed.Done!!
First of all, the ending is just terrible. You pretty much get an A,B, or C ending...Which is what BioWare promised not to deliver...not only that but your choices don't matter. The multiplayer is filled with bugs and glitches, I've lost all my unlocks and even lost some points that I bought a pack with to get going. BioWare said they were on the issue 14 days ago! Still nothing, not even a "we are working on it". Bioware/EA are two terrible, greedy companies that do not deserve the loyal customer fan base they have. Very disappointed.
Let me start by stating that I have been an ME nut since the first game. In fact, Mass Effect is the only game, rpg or otherwise, that I have played 3 times in a row. Once I finished one play-through I would play another. The same can be said for Mass Effect 2.ME 3 starts off a little jarring. The story does not pick up immediately after ME 2. Instead, some time has passed, you're back with the Alliance instead of Cerberus, and your mates have been scattered to the fringes of the galaxy. So of course you must assemble your team again. I'm guessing that the lapse in time for the story is probably explained in the ME novels or comics but I haven't read any of them. Onced I got past this jarring plot start things started to pick up. The story goes where'd you expect. True, the ending isn't the best in the history of games or movies, but it's not the worst. And it is an ENDING. I like the fact that the series ends here. Some franchises have a tendency to outlive their attraction by releasing game after game (think of Final Fantasy or God of War). I respect and admire the fact that this is the end. Also, even though the ending could have been better, I'm not going to let a lackluster ending kill my enjoyment of everything leading up to it. I do think that Bioware could have differed the endings a little more than they did. There are 7 possible endings and each one is basically the same with only a few minor differences.The graphics are the same as the previous two titles. Graphics whores will not like this fact, but I admire it as it gives amazing continuity to the series. The game is a little glitchy but I think this may be due to an update I need to install and haven't been able to since I haven't had network access during my playthrough.The design is consistent with the previous two titles. All alien species look like they should and act like they should. However, it seemed to me that all female characters that came back from previous titles (Ahsley, Liara, and Jack) were designed in an overly sexualized style. Their boobs seemed to have gotten larger and Jack always has hard nipples. The only ones to miss this change were Miranda and Shepherd. Did someone at EA think this would add seriousness to the game? If anything it actually makes the game lose a little seriousness. Also, if you import a character from ME 2, the stats will import but you will have to re-create your Shepherd. ME 2 did not have this flaw.Sound and gameplay are great. The weapons in the game are interesting but I would have liked to have seen the heavy weapons back. In ME 3 they are there, but only as pickups that you get in the field and once you're out of ammo, that's it; back to normal weapons. Also, a minor let down for me is in the squad selection. The character present are great, but in the first two games my favorite squad members were the Krogans. ME 3 has no Krogan squad members. Although it fits into the story to not have one, my geeky admiration for the Krogan would have liked to have had one in my squad. Although I must admit that the further exploration of Tuchanka was perhaps my favorite part of the game.All in all, this is a good game that grants finality to the series. Playing through with all main and sidequests complete put me right at 40 hours of total play. If missions were managed a little better on my part this might have been shaved by 3 or 4 hours. Don't let all the negative reviews of this game's ending prevent you from playing through the game. Play through it yourself and see for yourself what you think of the ending. I feel that too many fanboys out there in review land wanted a better ending that would leave the franchise open for more games (still possible for prequel stories). I for one, think sequelitis is running rampant in games and movies. It's time for things to have finality. Mass Effect 3 grants us finality.
Single-player: very similar to Mass Effect 2, which was excellent. The Mass Effect series is a unique blend of story, action, and light RPG elements. Some fans are very disappointed with the final 15 minutes of a 20-60 hour game (and the trilogy itself) so beware of that. I thought the ending was good (here come the downvotes) but it did leave much to the imagination. A free DLC to expand upon the ending (but not change it) is coming this summer.Multiplayer: surprisingly fun if you like co-op action. Bioware has a good design sense (usually) and it shows here.Summary: an excellent game which I will definitely play again.
BioWare has outdone themselves yet again and have developed a climactic and satisfying finale to one of the best video game series ever created. Even on its own Mass Effect 3 stands as a legendary, AAA title. Let's examine several categories: Gameplay, Story, Sound, and the Ending.GAMEPLAY:The game feels the same as previous titles when walking around with Shepard, yet it feel smoother. BioWare has managed to make the game feel like ME without making gamers feel like there's been no improvement, yet the improvements blend in so well that the mechanics don't feel foreign, either. Combat has been drastically improved, IMO. It feels less busy than it did in ME2 and more tactical, but the added customization options give combat a fresh edge to keep players coming back.STORY:Mass Effect 3's plot is extremely strong. The writing is the best in the series, and the repeated theme of sacrifice serves to make the overall story emotionally gripping. Many of the cutscenes on different missions are so epic; some of the character interactions are so powerful. There are more than a handful of unforgettable sequences here, and with such a diversity of characters and dialogue, it's almost guaranteed that any gamer who picks up this game will see something they find memorable during their ME3 experience.SOUND:I got my hands on the Final Fantasy series years ago as a kid, so video game music has always been an important factor in helping a game be above the competition. With that said, Clint Mansell has composed beautiful songs that fit the ME universe with haunting perfection. Some tunes will make you reflect, some will make you be ready to grab your assault rifle and join Shepard on the front lines, and others still will make you tear up deep inside. I've got the soundtrack on my iPod. I listen to it quite often during the week.ENDING:Let me first say I loved the ending, and especially so now with the free Extended Cut DLC. Without giving anything away (though hopefully you haven't been spoiled by other reviews), I feel the ending forces gamers to really sit down and think about the implications of their ending. This makes it both more unforgettable and more mature than most endings in any art medium such as movies, books, etc. I think the reason so many gamers complain about the ending is because they'd rather have an ending spoon-fed to them than have themselves think through things. That's just my opinion. I also felt all my choices along the way mattered. I remember the choices I made since ME1, and they were given proper treatment in my book. All the important sub-plots came to fitting conclusions throughout ME3 without feeling rushed. Does this mean every single question I have about the ending was answered? No, but I have to admit the Extended Cut really answered most of the things I pondered about. Ultimately, the ending was not cliche in the least, which is something I and many other gamers really value.Here's the bottom line: You're shooting yourself in the foot by not buying this game. It's one you'll want on your shelf for years to come. It's the finale to a level of storytelling that is unprecedented in any entertainment industry. Even if you are left unsatisfied with the ending, the journey all the way there is one heck of a ride you'll always remember.
What EA/Bioware calls 'artistic integrity', it's clear there are many thousands of Mass Effect fans who feel incredibly cheated by ME3's horrifically depressing ending.I would have given this game a solid five stars. Great graphics. Good combat mechanics. Excellent return to mod-able weapons. Eliminating most of the tedious planet scanning. Enabling you to pick any class and weapon you liked (I went with a sniper rifle-wielding Adept -- it was an awesome combination). Fascinating story.Until the last 15 minutes. Then if it was possible to give negative stars here on Amazon, I'd hit this one with a -5.Starting in on ME3 with an imported character I'd played all the way through the first two titles in the series, and all the DLCs, I could see all kinds of decisions affecting the story's progression and events. It was incredible and satisfying, because whether you were a paragon or renegade mattered, whether you'd saved certain characters or not, choices affected the availability of other choices, and it all kept building......then came a game finish that sucked so bad I wondered if it had been written by the eight year old they had doing the voice work that space-kid. (I'll do my best to stay spoiler free here.) For the last 15-odd minutes of ME3, it doesn't matter what companion crew members you picked for the final mission. Doesn't matter whether your crew loves or fears you. Doesn't matter whether you played as good or bad or neutral, ruthless or compassionate. Doesn't matter if you had a romance...because trust me on this, if you did, you will regret having gotten attached to anyone. Doesn't matter if you had the best equipment in the game, or anything at all.Heck, it doesn't even matter by then what class you'd played.You lose everything you ever cared about, and by all indications it's forever, even if you did manage to keep Shepard from dying in the end. All the freedom you had before to do what you want, all the choices collapse into a singularity of predestined outcomes, illogic, and utter solipsism. Nietzsche himself couldn't have written a more depressing story conclusion.Don't even get me started on the massive plot-holes that result simply from the ending itself. Others have covered these in excruciating detail. Things get bad, you're in terrible shape, and apparently your entire crew abandons you to run away. Lovely.There are, at most, three possible endings with one little side addition to one of them. The only thing that determines the availability of the endings and your ability to choose among them is whether you did enough side missions and/or if you played enough of the multi-player version to jack the percentage on the effectiveness. iPhone/iPad owners have an additional option to increase it by playing a Mass Effect mobile game exclusive to iOS platforms. (Android/Kindle owners? Out of luck.)(Side hint: There are folks and sites online that can provide info on how to hack the game's config files to raise your 'Galactic Readiness' score, because despite EA/BW's assurances, if you do not have the iOS game and do not play the MP version, you can NOT get what they're calling the best possible ending on a first play-though, not even if you use an imported ME2 character. Period.)Again, towards the end of Mass Effect 2, if you had not upgraded your ship and had not secured the loyalty of your crew members by doing their personal side-missions, they would -die-. The suicide mission could become exactly that...or if you worked hard, you could save everybody. What you'd done affected the ending.Mass Effect 3? Be nice to your crew, ignore them, call them idiots -- it doesn't matter. You're on your own in a situation that might only be a huge Reaper-induced indoctrination hallucination, you've no way of knowing, and the game certainly doesn't offer any real solace or answers. All we've gotten from EA/BW is their insistence that the trilogy ended -exactly- as they intended.Anyway, I was grateful to have had some forewarning that the ending would likely be unsatisfying, because at least that way when I got there, I didn't have the urge to hurl a paperweight through a nearby window or drink myself unconscious.Seriously, it's a fun game. Incredibly fun. But as far as replaying might go, I can't see myself ever going beyond point where the next thing to do is to confront the Illusive Man. Because that's when everything starts to go to hell and there's no turning back.(On update, July 24 2012: I have downloaded and played the "extended edition" ending. It's better. I no longer feel like I completely wasted my time, because the new version does show evidence of the actions and decisions you made during the game. Looks like the "it was all an indoctrination hallucination" theory is dead and buried. Now we know why Joker and the Normandy left. And hey, Krogan babies!)
Game really brings together the trilogy. Despite what I heard about the ending, I thought it was awesome. Without any spoilers, I'll only say it was refreshing to have an end to a game that didn't just make everything dandy in the universe.
I can understand that a lot of people were disappointed with the ending but I think it's overly harsh to rate the game with one star, especially when most of these same reviewers say that they enjoyed the game up until the last mission. We're talking 40-50 hours worth of enjoying a game and not liking the last hour or less.  Maybe knock off a star or two for the ending would be more fair.  I would have rated this game a 4.5 because I don't like the fact that to get the "best" ending you'll need to play multiplayer and the end did fall flat with some questionable things that happened.  But up until all of that the game was fabulous.  Spoilers below because I want to discuss all the great things about this game.I loved how they incorporated just about every character I had met or had missions with in prior games and allowed me to have some sort of closure with each and every one of them.  I especially loved helping the Quarians and Geth resolve their centuries long war and was able to help Wrex and his people as well.  Lost a couple of good "friends" in this last game as well but their deaths were good ones and both went out heroes which is okay with me.Loved touring the ship after each mission and catching crew members chatting in the galley area or talking over the intercoms and discussing missions or telling jokes.  Loved two of the crew members both having moments of weakness and getting drunk and how funny those scenes were.  Also really enjoyed seeing the world through Edi's eyes as she tried to understand humanity and also the relationship between Edi and Joker!  I especially loved and laughed at Joker's reaction to seeing Edi in her new body!So maybe they'll give us a new ending like Fallout 3 did but even if they don't I still tremendously enjoyed this game!
This is one of my favorite game series in a very long time.  Such an epic story!  Multiplayer keeps the game fun, even after you have beat the single player portion a few times.  I highly recommend all Mass Effect games to everyone!
I've been playing the Mass Effect series since the beginning, the first of which is still the best (despite the lackluster combat). Bioware has this problem where they just can't leave something good alone. Sure they fix a lot of the annoying problems, but they also add a lot more when they do. ME2 is a perfect example of how Bioware takes something good, and screws it up. ME3 has a lot going for it, but it still suffers from Bioware's meddling.The journal is the WORST of the series, completely useless. Side missions, very few- most are just scanning systems and planets for items or people, you don't even get to land and help out rescuing these people, you just magically pick them up, and never hear from them again. It's a major disappointment. Whatever happened to the flawed but fun Mako and climbing random planet's mountain ranges?There is less choices in conversations, you don't really get to control what Shepard says most of the time.Character's movements are still awkward, and in my opinion, unnatural, but in ME3 Shepard and others will actually twist their heads to look over their backs! Creepy! Characters arms will move through their body when they move, and some random people on the citadel will walk through Shepard when he is standing in their way. They did not take time to polish this game, it's pretty sloppy in that regard.That said there are a lot of pros to the game, it's still pretty fun, and has the best combat of all three games. There's more than 2 crappy assault rifles this time around, but ME1 already had more weapons and upgrades. The feel of the story is pretty cool, it does feel dramatic and somewhat desperate.Multiplayer- Like many I was very put off by Bioware adding multiplayer to one of my favorite titles. Since then, I've played it, it's actually really fun, and I have spent, in some cases, more time online playing than actually playing the campaign. So bravo Bioware for getting something right.Overall, Bioware gets worse and worse at making games, they should take notes from Bethesda and Todd Howard.
I like this game a lot, although I feel the developers tried to do too much in this one and got away from some of the things that made the previous game so much fun. Still highly recommend, but those looking for an improvement will be disappointed.
EA should be ashamed.  Day 1 DLC is a slap in the face to people who support you.  I will no longer be a victim of this corporate greed.  It is ruining the gaming community.  We need to take a stand before its too late.
I am a gamer that reluctantly came to the Mass Effect universe on the day of the Superbowl between the Patriots in and the Giants in 2008.  "Try it," my brother said as he handed it to me.  I wasn't so sure - space adventures weren't my thing, but the wife and kids were gone that day so I decided to give it a try - 6 hours later I realized that I had missed the entire superbowl, having my dinner, and was now irrevokably hooked on this game!!!** Review contains some Spoilers **Five years later I had played both of the first two games multiple times, created three different Shepards based on class, history and gender, purchased all DLC for each and even purchased the DLC for the Prothean squad member on ME3 - A HUGE investment for any gamer but I wanted the "Full Monty" experience.Flash forward the the preorder I did on ME 3.  I started playing it the moment I got it (Thanks Amazon delivery!) and was blown away at the game's story - how dark and depressing it was.  How hopeless your situation is as you are watching the Reapers wipe out everything in site.  Your squad members develop deep emotional ties to the story and your character as they each go through certain areas of depression as their own loss begins to mount.  That was truly amazing in and of itself.But one thing that truly bothered me before I even got to the ending is that I didn't see where a lot of my decisions in the previous games really had an impact on the overall story except for the fact that I had saved every squad member from ME2 and their appearances in ME3 gave me some more missions to help in my final battle on a planet I was currently engaged in.I did meet up with the Rachni queen that I had spared with my Paragon Shepard, but the same situation also arose with my Renegade Shepard who destroyed the Rachni queen in ME1 and found a Hybrid Queen developed by the Reapers in the cave....wierd.But through it all, I found the game intriguing, satisfying, and intense all the way up to the final battle...Then EVERYTHING went sideways and that was NOT a good thing.I had read some of the online reviews on Amazon before I had even gotten halfway through the game.  When I saw the 2  star rating I was SHOCKED!  When I read that it was because of the ending, I said to myself, "This is Bioware...it can't be THAT bad can it?"When I finally got to the end credits I said "Umm....Yes...it was THAT bad."  I felt such a let down that I was hesitant to play the game again, but I wanted to see how the game responded to a Renegade Shepard and I wanted the achievements.That being said, when I saw the reaction from Bioware who defended the ending I was dumbfounded.  It had to be one of the worst I have seen in any game to date which instead of answering all plot points and bringing the story to a conclusion...I felt it left more questions than answers as pointed below:1) What happened to the combined organic fleet engaging the Reapers?  Was it destroyed or was it stranded in the Sol system now that the Mass Relays were destroyed?2) Why was Joker fleeing from the battle?  How did he get my squad members I had taken to earth on the Normandy?  Why didn't he just land on Earth?3) What happened to all the characters?  What were their fates?  Who died?  Who lived?4) What was Shepard's ultimate fate? (I ended up getting the ending where Shepard takes a breath, but that was it...what the heck?)In conclusion I was extremely dissatisfied that I had spent so much money on DLC and hoping that all of it would have an impact on ME3 and its ending.  Some of it did in fact affect my gameplay, but I was still left with too many questions from this epic franchise.  The fact that Bioware has dug their heels in and refused to redo the ending has also left me disheartened at trying any further Bioware games.  That to me is just wrong.  You as a company should be developing games that SATISFY gamers not your publisher.  I truly smell EA's fingers in this mess.Fortunetaly, Bioware is creating some free DLC this summer to further "explain" the ending of ME3 but still - "Explain?"  If you have to go back to explain your games ending then maybe it wasn't such a good ending after all?However one may view this game, it did give me some truly tough and emotional choices.  My most compelling one is listed below:My renegade female Shepard had chosen to destroy the genophage cure in ME2.  As a result, Wrex (who survived ME1) was more hostile to her than my Paragon Shepard who saved the cure.After meeting up with Mordin and assaulting the Shroud, I decided to sabotage the cure to get the Salarians on my side.  Mordin was irate when I tried to talk him out of it.  Eve had already died and he had become completely emotional - much like Maelon did in ME2.  He walked toward the elevator and a Renegade Interrupt came up.  I pulled the trigger and shot him right in the back.  I was really disturbed by the two minutes of cut scene which showed him crawling along the floor whispering "Not yet...not yet.." as he tried to put the cure into the machine.  He died before he could and the shroud exploded.I thought that was the end of that, but later Wrex confronted my Shepard on the Citadel on destroying the cure and killing Mordin.  He then tried to shoot her with a shotgun until I found a gun and shot him dead.  That was also another huge Holy Crap! Moment.Later on the Normandy, she talked with Garrus.  He asked why Wrex had tried to hill her.  I had her admit what she had done and Garrus was somewhat sympathetic at the difficult choice she had to make.  But he added, "Was Mordin okay with this?"  My Shepard remained silent.  Garrus turned to his screne and said, "This damn war..."  Intense!In conclusion, I WILL be downloading the DLC this summer as I wish to have my questions answered, but I fear I may be left with more questions than I had originally started with.  Please fix this Bioware.  I true fan pleads to you.UPDATE - 11/22/2012I downloaded the free update concerning the game's ending along with the Leviathan DLC.  I was most pleased that the glaring plot holes at the end were resolved much more satisfactory than the launch ending.  One has to wonder why they rushed out an incomplete game in March when they could have done this from the beginning.I won't complain much considering that Bioware took the angst the fans had and actually tried to make things right.  Thank you Bioware - just be aware of this in the future.
For those that haven't finished Mass Effect 3, the first part of my review will be spoiler free, but the second part must be rife with spoilers because the story and ending is the biggest problem of the game. I'll also preface this review by saying that the ME series had been probably my favorite gaming series of all times, and I beat the campaign of ME1 three times while I finished the campaign of ME2 four times. I had been incredibly excited about the game, and had been able to avoid practically every spoiler except for two smaller ones about EDI and the Prothean character. Even though the game is flawed, I loved pretty much 99% of the game, but the ending was so bad that it has ruined my entire Mass Effect experience. I was going to play the game again with my female character as I loved the voice over work of Jennifer Hale, but now I don't really want to. I was even going to start a new character in ME1 and play all three games in succession, but now it just isn't worth it.So, let's start with the gameplay, which in the Mass Effect series is split between the RPG aspects, and the third person cover shooting battle system. ME3 definitely has the best action gameplay of the entire series, and while it can still be clunky there are constantly amazing moments with dozens of different but equally awesome strategies you could employ. I just wish there were almost more buttons on the controller for this game. It's one of the most effective uses of a controller in any shooter, where you really have so many different attacks you could use at every moment. Most of the clunkiness once again resolves around the action button being the same as the sprint and cover button. I'm not sure if it would work, but it could be interesting if the action button was instead mapped to the select button, the only one that isn't used in the game.Now on to the RPG systems of the game, which is much improved from basic systems in ME2, for Mass Effect 3 they basically took most of what was in ME1 and stripped out the hassle of the massive inventory screen and the repetitive/annoying/time-consuming aspect of destroying/selling the multitude of useless items you received. This interesting new inventory management system works by all of the weapons having a weight, and if you go over a certain weight limit (which is dependent on your character class and certain upgrades you can choose) you can face severe power regeneration penalties. I love this idea, but it can become annoying when all of the good weapons have really high weight. It also ends up limiting the weapons you can bring along, even though I was a Vanguard that selected the increase weight capacity upgrade. There's a possible related result, where you can no longer carry any heavy weapons like in previous games, something that I always loved. Instead there are only four heavy weapons found at few certain points lying on the ground (flamethrower, rocket launcher, some Geth laser gun, and the mini-nuke) with very limited ammo. Back to the main weapons that are in this game, I loved that Bioware brought back the Role Playing elements present in ME1 guns, almost keeping the same names and level presentation. The concept is really smart, where you can purchase an upgrade up to level 5 for each weapon and each weapon add-on (that you can have two equipped on each gun). The only problems here is that I had enough money so that each time I got a new gun I promptly maxed out the upgrades, so the system wasn't as rewarding as it could have been. Also, with the level of each add-on upgrading when you find or buy a new one, while I love this, it was a little uneven where multiple times I upgraded ones I didn't use while I couldn't find the upgrades for the ones I did regularly use. This whole system could be improved with a few adjustments, which is possibly a higher level cut-off limit like in Multiplayer (could make it so that weapons that you like don't become useless because of their stats later in the game) and something that I liked in the first game but disappeared in the sequels. That is a weapon efficiency upgrade system where you could get experience points for every enemy you kill with each weapon type, I think this could really increase the RPG feel while keeping all of the action. One more thing with the weapons, there's an interesting section of the Spectre offices where you have a fire range to test your weapon load-out. I love this idea, especially with all of the different weapons, but it makes no sense to have it on the Citadel, instead it should be in the Normandy Cargo Bay. Too many times I would upgrade a new weapon only to find I didn't like the way it fired. Then there are weapons that I never tried out as their weight was really high and the stats weren't the best. So while I may have possibly liked the way they fired, now I'll never know as I didn't have an opportunity to test them out.I was pretty disappointed that no real changes (non-cosmetic) were made to the armor system. It's much too basic, almost exactly the same as ME2, and I wish there were more options to alter and upgrade your armor. I really kept the same armor for most of the game, even later I just made a few adjustments and all I cared about was getting the bonus percentages I wanted. The armor also looked all pretty similar, except for the helmets, which were mostly pretty goofy looking. Finally, for the different character classes, in this iteration they seem about the same, but some new abilities have been added. One of them that I really loved was the new Nova attack which was really useful when combined with the Biotic Charge, also I like that it's not perfect as it uses up your shields, creating an interesting cost versus benefit play choice.The next aspect of the game is one that has really defined to series up to this point, and that is the conversation system of ME3. I was very disappointed that the conversation options were much more limited in this iteration, where you basically only had the paragon or renegade choice. There was never a paragade response or something else like the sarcastic comments I loved making in Dragon Age 2, at this point in the series it felt like a step back. There was also an annoying amount of conversations that resembled your talks with the DLC characters Massani and Goto. I didn't mind this too much, but it was frustrating when multiple times I would accidently hit the A button one too many times and I would skip the conversation. I also had a few graphics glitches during the normal conversations with choices, where the character's framework was broken or glitched, and they'd be looking all over the place or the eyes would be tracking wrong, it was just really weird. Even stranger, this tended to happen earlier in the game (they either occurred with Liara or Ravik), I didn't really experience it too much later, I'm not sure why. Possibly relating to this, I didn't have any problems importing my character's face as some have, but I think that's because I played around with it in ME2 because I didn't love my Shepard's face.There were multiple times in conversations where there were great little inside joke comments that were only for my Shepard, but I was a little disappointed that there weren't more new in depth conversations with your crew. Even with the new character Vega, while I love the sparring match/conversation you had with him (One of my favorite crew member interactions in the whole series) you don't get to know him as much as you did the previous game's characters. I understand that with the possibility of almost every old character not being present in ME3, the developer didn't want to spend too much time and money on them, but conversely they didn't add many new characters. In total, not counting the DLC character, there are only four new crew members on the Normandy (all of whom are humans): the new playable jock character, a gay male pilot, a gay female communications officer, and a female reporter. I liked all of these new characters (though the reporter is a little generic and annoying) but consider something for a minute. If Garrus and Tali had died in your playthrough of ME2, for most of the game you would only have two playable characters, Vega and Liara. Later of course, you get Kaidan/Ashley and EDI, but it's amazing they didn't add new characters or make more of the characters from ME2 crew members. Even with all of the crew members possible, you don't get a representative from the Krogans and the Salarians, or any of the other non-council races. I expected to see all of the different species send someone onto the Normandy, but for some reason no one did. All we got was a Krogan leader (Wrex!), a Turian leader, and a Quarian leader in the War Room for a few missions. You'd think that if Bioware didn't want to waste time and money on possibly unpopular characters, they would have created more characters that every player would get to know. The only possible explanation for why they didn't do this is that they didn't think they had the time to establish multiple new interesting characters.Another annoying change to something I loved before, was how when you're in the hub-world listening to people's interesting conversations you have to leave the area and come back to hear the next part of the story. In ME2, you could just keep hitting the A button to listen to the rest of the conversation, which to me worked really well. This time, even though the stories are cool, I would lose interest in them as so much time could pass between each part of the telling, also at one point they glitched out and all of the conversations reset. I also had a problem that I figure has to be a glitch where at the last conversation with the Illusive Man, the Paragon and Renegade options were greyed out. With this Shepard I have always selected the blue conversation options in each Mass Effect game every time they appeared, and I also always explore every possible conversation option. I had off the charts amounts of Reputation and Paragon points and still I had a conversation option blocked, the first time this has ever happened to me (in the Mass Effect series and every other video game with a similar conversation system). I felt extremely confused and annoyed that somehow the best possible resolution to the Illusive Man conflict wasn't available to me for no apparent reason.Onto the locations and exploration of the different worlds, something that was one of my favorite parts of the previous games, but is almost non-existent in ME3. Here is where ME3 strikingly reminds me of the failure of Dragon Age 2. Similarly to Kirkwall, the Citadel acts as the only hub-world in the entire Mass Effect 3 game, while in ME2 there were four completely different hub-worlds. This would be okay, as most worlds are under attack from the Reapers, except for the fact that this version of the Citadel is the smallest and most basic of the entire Mass Effect trilogy. Then the Citadel only goes through a very minor cosmetic change halfway through the game, and they expect us, a society full of ADHD people, not to grow bored of the surroundings. We get to go to worlds we've always wanted to explore, like the Turian, Salarian, Quarian, Asari and Human home-worlds, but all of them are filled with waist high walls and they're all being blown up by Reapers and/or attacked by Cerberus. The missions are also relatively short, and we fail to really see anything unique about the planets. Further, ME3 has essentially eliminated the mini missions on random worlds, and the probe mechanic found in ME2. Instead, now you have to fly around each system evading the Reapers while you randomly scan for 2 or 3 of the interesting things, which are either small amounts of fuel or some random unexplained war asset on a planet. Then you get to play a few basic solo N7 missions on the limited number of Multiplayer maps. I understand that exploring Alien worlds isn't a priority in the middle of a war with a group of ancient synthetic/organic hybrid monster spaceships, but I missed this aspect that was hugely present in the previous games.Related to the locations and explorations, I'm going to talk a little bit about the further development of the alien species you encounter. Sadly, we see very little new aspects of the previously introduced alien species, and no new aliens. One thing we do see is our first Krogan female, who is a very cool character, though the time spent with her is short. Also, you don't see too much of the Krogan woman, but this kind of makes sense when you consider the Krogan society. Once again, every other species' females are non-existent, I guess Bioware believes the Asari provide enough females for everyone. Also, I can explain away why we don't see many of the other races' females (though we probably should see them as refugees or scientists), but I find it weird that we don't see any Turian females. From Garrus' previous stories, it has been established that females can serve in their military and can compete with the best of the males (also they're apparently very flexible but don't have much reach). The one new design that Bioware were extremely successful in creating was that of the Prothean. They succeeded in looking like the Collectors and were just extremely cool. I loved even more the reality of what their culture was in comparison to what everyone had believed. The only problem is that for some reason Bioware decided to make this important and awesome character first-day DLC.  Finally, the worst aspects of the new alien design in ME3 are the Quarians.I either wanted Bioware to keep the Quarians faces secret, or I wanted a beautiful scene to show off Tali's true face, they even had the perfect situation when they are on her home planet of Rannoch. Instead Bioware was lazy, and they just had Tali give a picture to Shepard that he could keep in his cabin. This picture showed a poorly photo-shopped stock photo of a cute human woman that probably took an hour or two to make. Every single piece of Tali fan art I've seen is a hundred times better than what Bioware chose. Since Turians and Quarians are so closely related (same amino acid structure) then they would probably look more similar to each other instead of being human (except for some tattoos and different hands). Of course, they would be also be different in many ways (the Turian world experienced a lot of radiation which caused them to develop the armor plates) and there was something about the Quarians where they have a symbiosis with the plant life on their world, and because of this their immune systems weren't fully developed (this was then made worse by years and years spent on sterile space ships). Even if Bioware wanted a mostly human design to appease Tali fans (which there is some precedent for as the eyes and nose appear human behind the mask) I've seen much better humanoid designs for Tali. I mean it's a little strange where fans are more talented and spend more time creating images of a very important design than the official developer.Here's where I'm going to stick a bunch of the random features in the game. I was a bit surprised by the complete elimination of mini-games in ME3, while they were all a little annoying before, instead of fixing them now they just removed them, and the doors/safes take a little longer to open, implying that you're automatically performing some type of hack or bypass. The reputation system is a much appreciated addition/adaptation, where you get standard reputation points for performing moral neutral actions, and every Paragon or Renegade point adds to your total. Because of this, players are no longer punished from not being an absolute character, and no matter you preference if you have enough reputation points both of the Paragon and Renegade conversation choices are unlocked. However, it is pretty goofy how the bar is filled up very early into the game, I was still getting lots of points, but there was no visual interpretation of the increase. I almost wish there was a bigger bar, or even a numerical presentation of all of your reputation points. Another new addition to this game is the War Assets and Effective Military Strength (EMS). I really liked this feature, as everything you've done in the Mass Effect series is represented here. However, once again the bar fills up incredibly early in the game. There's also some really disturbing about the EMS, and that's the aspect of Galactic Readiness, which can only be increased by playing multiplayer. So if you hate Co-op Multiplayer, or if you don't have enough money or the ability to have an Xbox Live Gold Membership, your Galactic Readiness is locked at 50%. This means that all of your War Assets will be halved for the EMF. So let's look at my level, I had 7245 points with a Galactic Readiness hovering around 100%. If I wouldn't have played Multiplayer, then I would have only had 3622 EMF points, which is enough to get the endings but is not enough to get the "best" ending. To put this in perspective, I played every mission available except for a few that glitched out on me. The only things that might have lowered my war assets, were that in ME1 I saved the Council, in ME2 I destroyed the Collector Base (even though for the story Cerberus still found most of it intact), and in ME3 I cured the Krogan Genophage which annoyed the Salarians. One other random thing, in ME3 you don't have someone like Kelly that will take care of your fish. The only option is to buy a crazy expensive Aquarium VI, and if you don't your fish will die, even if you feed them every chance you get. You'd think EDI would be able to monitor your fish tank for free, but I guess it'd be a little degrading considering her new role as a crew member on herself.Now onto the last aspect of the game that isn't the story, and that is the newly added Co-op Multiplayer. I was initially concerned about this aspect of the game, but I've had a lot of fun playing with it. I did have a lot of problems with the EA servers the first couple of days though, and this was exasperated by the fact that you only get experience and credits by either successfully completing the mission, or by dying. I wish that the game would save your experience after each wave, especially when any expendable items you use before you disconnect are lost forever. After this I also glitched out a couple times, once I got stuck in a wall, but I was actually still able to kill a bunch of the enemies while some of them were unable to get me. Another time I glitched out during multiplayer, it was much worse and much weirder, where the whole stage was shaking like I was in the middle of an earthquake. Then while I was running, I ended up floating in the air for a few feet before falling through the floor (I actually have a video of it but it's kind of crappy since I couldn't find my camera and used my iPod). Sadly or thankfully, my team members were a capable bunch (even though it was a silver Reaper mission) and were able to beat the 10 waves, though it took like 20 minutes where I just had to float there in nothingness and wait. The even weirder thing was that I could damage some of the enemies with biotic powers, and the enemies were able to kill me. However, once I died I would immediately come back to life. Looking past the glitches, I love leveling up the different characters, and with a group of capable players the missions can be very fun. However, after a while I grew a little bored playing the missions, they're all just too similar. Then I worked really hard on maxing out the Vanguard branch, but when I hit level 20, to get the achievement I promoted the soldiers. This is a cool idea, but I wish there was more of a reward for this, or possibly the ability to still use the high level characters when attempting a Gold level mission, or at the very least a new character plus where they get an extra bonus so you're not starting from the very beginning of the character. The biggest problem I have with the multiplayer though is that EA decided to for the first time in a AAA console game to include a freemium pricing structure for the locked characters, weapons and items. I actually find this kind of offensive, as I could play the multiplayer for hours and get a random pack someone else could get immediately by shilling out two dollars. I especially have a problem with this pricing as you could spend two dollars on a pack, and get nothing you could use. If you're going to charge for items others could get by just playing the game, I think you should be able to pick items, although of course it would make it even more unfair for people that don't want to be tricked into paying for items that are already in the game. I think that the Multiplayer could be saved with a patch, and possibly more game modes than the 10 waves that always feature the play modes capture the flag, secure the base, head-hunt certain enemies, and kill everything moving. As it currently stands, I can't see this multiplayer establishing a consistent faithful base for anything nearing long term.Now, I can finally get to the aspect of the game that had me the most upset/frustrated, and that is the story. From here on in, warning, there be major spoilers ahead. Right from the start of the game the story is goofy. A minute after our first look at the ME universe's Earth, the Reapers attack, not giving the player any time to acclimate to the game. Then a little later (after a goofy child's death that will haunt Shepard for the rest of the game) you are introduced to the game's one and only plot device, blueprints for an all-powerful weapon designed but not completed by the Protheans, called the Crucible. This is just so generic and out of the blue, it doesn't make any sense, but I was ok with playing along. You then have a mission involving each of the previous ME game's characters, some small and some large. The developers then proceed to kill off two of my favorite characters in these missions, Mordin and Thane. However, I can accept their deaths, especially since it was established previously that both of them were near death (old age and lung disease respectively) and both of them were done very well, they had good deaths. I admit that I felt serious emotion with both of them, and I may or may not have cried through the whole hospital scene.I have a lot of problems with the development of Cerberus as the main antagonist in a game about the Reapers. I understand that Bioware wanted to provide different enemies to face, and I admit that their AI and designs are excellent. However, I don't understand how Cerberus became so powerful. Every time you see them they're a step ahead of you, even when you kill hundreds or thousands of their heavily armed and trained troops. Later they kind of explain this by establishing that they created a refugee Sanctuary that was actually a Human harvesting and indoctrination factory, but it still doesn't quite add up. I didn't love Cerberus in ME2, and things they've done had always been on the border of indecency and terrorism, but it usually seemed to be in Humanity's best interest. However, in ME3 they're all crazy and doing absolutely horrible incomprehensible things, Bioware tries to say it's all because TIM has been slowly indoctrinated and he's now under control of the Reapers, but I never really thought they successfully established this. Probably the goofiest Cerberus plot line is the coup of the Citadel, which made absolutely zero sense. They somehow gained control of Udina (who while being a douche bag didn't have any connections to Cerberus and had no reason to betray the rest of the Council) and managed to infiltrate the Citadel which is supposed to be the safest and most guarded place in the Galaxy (they even again said they upgraded the security). Then they for some reason wanted to assassinate the entire council, for reasons that are never explained.Up until around halfway through the game, I didn't love the story, but I was in love with the game and having a lot of fun playing it. I mean the actual story for ME2 was pretty basic and goofy, but I still absolutely loved the game. Then, after the previously mentioned Cerberus coup of the Citadel, I received the first realization that Bioware might not care about their fans, or that they might possibly even hate us. Previously in the Citadel, you met up and talked to Kelly Chambers in the refugee camp. There was a great little scene where after asking if she wants to rejoin the Normandy, she describes the horror she experienced on the Collector ship, and that she can't be on the Normandy as it reminds her of what she faced. Instead, she's helping the refugees coming into the Citadel. I loved this little interaction, and I thought it was great fan service for people that liked Kelly. Then after the coup, when walking around the refugee camp you hear two people talking and they basically say "Have you seen that red headed woman who was helping out so much?" "You didn't hear? A Cerberus soldier came up asking if she was Kelly Chambers, and after she said yes he just shot her in the head." "Huh, I guess if Cerberus asks you if you're someone, you should just say no." "Hah hah hah."  This was a character I spent the whole of ME2 talking to and growing to care about, and Bioware decided to kill her off so disrespectfully and unnecessarily, I was just absolutely horrified. I wished I could have never heard that conversation, but no, it will now always be in my brain.After this point, everything was ok, not perfect but I pretty much enjoyed all of the events and there were some truly awesome kickass scenes (I loved the fight where you called on the mother of all Thresher Maws and the brokering of peace between the Quarians and Geth), until the final battle to retake Earth. The whole strategy for retaking Earth was a little goofy, but I didn't mind it too much. There was also a great area where before the final battle you walk around the camp and talk to all of your party members, and you can even call and talk to the previous game's characters that aren't playable in ME3. The conversations are a little short, but I enjoyed all of them. Then after fighting for a while, you get to the beam to take you to the Citadel (Which was overtaken by the Reapers without any explanation of how & you can assume billions of people were killed) and everything breaks apart in a million pieces. You know the developer did something wrong when fan created explanations/interpretations make more sense than what we were actually given (The most logical being that the whole Citadel sequence was an indoctrinated dream). Other people have more succinctly examined and explained all of the different problems and plot holes, so I won't go too in depth here. Nevertheless, you are apparently hit by the Reaper's laser beam that destroys everything it touches, but here you only get some melted armor and a beat up face. You also receive a very powerful heavy pistol with unlimited ammo that you use to kill the Reaper creations between you and the teleportation beam. When you get to the beam and are transported to the Citadel, somehow both the Illusive Man and Anderson beat you to the main room. There's this whole thing where somehow TIM is able to control your body and make you shoot Anderson, but you are able to break control and kill TIM.After ascending the elevator to the merged Crucible and Citadel console, a God-like AI in the form of the dead child from Earth appears. Here, Bioware for some reason decides to give you more questions instead of providing the player with any answers. The God-child says that the Reapers are his answer to the problem that Synthetic life (pure order) will eventually completely wipe out all Organic life (pure chaos). Basically, the Reapers were created to save Organic life from Synthetics by murdering and harvesting every developed race each 50,000 years (A synthetic being created hybrids to kill organics to save them from being killed by synthetics). Through this whole interaction, Shepard acts completely subjugated and accepts everything the child says as absolute truth. You are finally given three options, you can control the Reapers (presented as the blue or Paragon choice even though it was represented by TIM, who was at least a Renegade character), you could destroy the Reapers along with all synthetic life (presented as the red or Renegade choice even though it was represented by Anderson, who was absolutely a Paragon character), or you could take the third option which would merge all organic and synthetic life (presented by no one, but this is obviously the choice that the God-child AI wants). Then, no matter what choice you make, as long as your war assets are beyond a very small level, Shepard dies, the Reapers leave Earth or are destroyed, every Mass Relay is destroyed (hopefully in a way different than what was seen in the Arrival DLC or entire systems might have been wiped out of existence), and the Normandy (After Joker apparently flees the battle on Earth) just barely escapes the blast and crash lands on an Eden-like planet, with characters that were just with you rushing the beam somehow being magically transported to the Normandy.Then that's it, the game is over except for a ridiculous conversation featuring a star-child and an old man taking place in a forest that resembles the one in Shepard's dream (and a flash of Shepard taking a breath if you had enough EMS and chose to destroy the Reapers). Oh, also there's an insulting message telling you to buy the future DLC Bioware releases, and you're set up back on the Normandy before the raid on the Cerberus base. I literally walked all around the Normandy trying to talk to everyone, and it felt like I was in a different dimension, it was just so weird and awkward. The only real difference between the three endings is the color of the beam the Crucible emits and the explosion that follows. When faced with the choice, I watched each ending on Youtube, and decided on the Green/Synthesis ending. Partly because it was the weirdest, but mostly because Edi and Joker embrace in that end, and if I had to die & the universe had to be irreversibly changed (most likely leading to many of the stranded races on Earth dying of starvation and never seeing their homes or loved ones) at least someone could find some happiness in this ending.So why am I and almost every Mass Effect fan outraged at the ending"s" Bioware gave us? (In one poll found on the official Mass Effect forums 91% of around 60,000 fans hated the ending and wants Bioware to change it completely, and 6% still wanted the ending slightly adjusted). First and foremost, the ending is so bleak and depressing, that there is no opportunity for happiness or even a sense of accomplishment that should come with beating a video game. I've never before played a game that punished me for beating it. Then there are so many plot holes with weird and abrupt revelations that make no sense. However, the biggest problem with the ending is that no choice that you made in all three games has any bearing on the outcome. As long as your Shepard didn't die in ME2 and you have the minimum amount of war assets or EMS in ME3 you get the same ending as someone that worked hard in each Mass Effect game and created their perfect Shepard story, maxing out all of the meters, doing all of the missions. I wouldn't have liked any ending where Shepard dies, but I could have accepted it if it was well done and provided closure, instead of just appearing to be the crumpled pieces of paper that a writer with any talent would have thrown into the trash.The prevailing sense of hopelessness despair and depression was never before found in the Mass Effect games. Even though you faced suicide missions, if you did everything right only one of your team members died in the games, and the overall mission was always essentially a complete success (There were always a large amount of casualties, but they were all blank faces). I really can't see how anyone at Bioware would have liked this ending. I've come to the conclusion that either Bioware doesn't care about their long term fans, hates their long term fans, or are so stupid that they thought the fans would actually like the ending they provided (or possibly a fourth option where they're just being trolls and the whole ending was a dream sequence and the true ending is being released as DLC, although I would probably associate this option as aligning closely to "they don't care about
Mass Effect 3 is a very fun game for the first 30 hours or so.  Unfortunately, the writing team decided to get "cute" with the ending of the space opera, and the ending(s), such as they are, are a wasteland of plotholes, inconsistencies, and themes that run contrary to the entire design of the series, never mind many of the main themes of the third game itself.It's a cogent reminder that even a team of creatives that is capable of producing the fantastic series that was Mass Effect is nevertheless capable of stumbling, and stumbling badly, nay horribly, in the end.
So, I've been a fan for the entire series. I couldn't wait to play the ME3 and really wasn't let down. I was moved to anger and even near-tears more than once. That's a good game in my book.1 - The writing for the ME games is nothing short of awesome. They manage to inspire a wide range of reactions through the scripted interactions. Further, there is more true action/choice tracking in ME than in some other decision based games. Characted know and react to your choices, commenting logically as a human would. I dig that. If you killed off Ash after bangin her, people comment on it later. Go figure.2 - The game play is improved, mostly. I'm not one to complain about things like this unless they are just completely tragic. ME games have always been challenging to play, and 3 is no exception. You adapt to the systems that are provided, and move on.3 - The length of the game is something of a let down for me. It could very well be that I am basing this off of my last plays through 1 and 2, with all that DLC so my perception might be a little jaded here. But still, I was surprised when I reached the final fighting stages.Overall, I loved this game, as I did 1 and 2.As for the 'controversial' ending: You know, Mass Effect has had a way of really drawing people in through the story. It was engaging, it was personal. I think that because of this people are really taking the current ending as an afront. Well. Whatever. I would have prefered an ending that I could have gotten all happy about and cheered for ... but the one that is in the game now is no less as powerful. Not every courageous life ends well, and not every hero gets a happy ending. For those who can't deal with any deviation from the "happy ending" ... well I think it says more about them than it does the game.
It maybe isn't going to change anytime soon, but I hope more gamers wake up, and fight against this DLC market that's destiny to doom the gaming industry. Keep the protest alive! I also heard this game has terrible frame-rate issues on the PS3, and occasional freezing.
The MassEffect Trilogy was Awesome!  Sure the ending doesn't culminate everything from part 1 and 2, which is what Bioware originally promised.  We were supposed to have save data that transfered to each sequal and effect the climactic finale and it just didn't happen.  I am upset but, so what!  All three games were great.  Mass Effect 3 had some of the best missions, characters, drama, intrigue, etc. of any game ever made.  It's a classic!
You have probably read the reviews that highlight the travesty that is this games ending. The reality is this is a series that overwhelmingly depends on player choice forming the story line. Abandoning that dynamic at the end of the series makes the entire exercise pointless. That said the only thing this series really has going for it is the story telling. Once you remove that or look beyond the fantasy. What you are left with is at best a very mediocre shooter, or a outright anemic attempt at a role playing game. With an absurd amount of time sinks which have no real entertainment value.There are simply better options to avail yourself of in either genre. Mass Effect 3 as a shooter takes turns at being maddening, and yet tedious at the same time. The combat is based around a cover system married to a shield based system. Meaning that combat can be underwhelming. Except for the times when the controls cause mishaps like jumping cover, saddling up to the side of cover, or gasp walking away from cover randomly. That would be bad on the whole, but it can become infuriating in some scenarios where overpowered enemies are thrown at you, or worse you contend with a endless drill of them. So you will go through hours of mind numbing repetition only to find yourself getting hung up in a arena like area for upwards of an hour.On the role playing side of the equation the situation is even bleaker. The entire system is based around making tradeoffs that equal out regardless of your play style. Meaning that you only have the appearance of choice. Even then it boils down to a choice of A or B. This applies equally for skills and equipment. There is just no room for thought, or individualization. It really speaks to a contempt for the player. This developer isn't known for having a comprehensively deep system, but this is about as shallow as the pool gets. With two previous outing in this series. It should have seen marked improvement, but in the end it has actually gotten much worse.To summarize you have a story development based game which not only gets castrated at the end, but is also just plain unabashed about ripping other franchises off. It isn't homage when you rip entire scenes from movies, and television series. So the story is pretty pathetic regardless of whether your choices matter or not. Other then that you just have a very weak shooter with some pointless role playing elements tacked on top for I guess some kind of nostalgia purpose.About all that can be said for the game is that it isn't utterly horrible. It is playable even if the elements in part or whole are entirely unremarkable. You will get about thirty hours out of this title with little to no real replay value. So I recommend waiting to buy used or the price comes down. With the way this games image is flagging it should go without saying that the market will see a influx of copies. This is a game that may be say worth twenty dollars, but definitely not sixty dollars.
So, I could go on and on about how great Mass Effect 1 and Mass Effect 2 were.  I think most people know this already.  Basically, I'll state that the reason Mass Effect 3 is the way it is is because EA is the way that it is.  That is, it's a company primarily in business for the numbers. EA's sole interest is how many games they can make fly off the store shelves. They don't really care if the game is good, bad or just plain awful. To them it makes no nevermind.What matters to the EA bean counters is that you plop down $60 for it and then $10 here and $10 there for DLC. That's what matters. Mass Effect 3 is the poster child of exactly how EA operates its gaming divisions. EA demands its gaming divisions to deliver when they want it delivered, not when the game is ready or when the game is complete. It's clear also that Bioware has been gutted of any creative spark that was there when KOTOR and, later, when Mass Effect 1 was released. It's also clear that EA has forced Bioware to dumb down and scale back what Mass Effect is so they can get it out faster.As for Mass Effect 3, this game tries to play like Mass Effect 1 and 2, but fails on so many levels.  The environments are small, there are few side quests and what is there is so directed it might as well be a rail shooter. When you're on board the Normandy, you can hop from star system to star system collecting things, but too has been removed the 'mining' parts from Mass Effect 2 dumbing this game down substantially. You can still search for things, but only what the game wants you to search for.The relationship building aspect is still mostly kept intact, again dumbed down and scaled back. So, at least that's somewhat there. There are question and response pieces that seem to be leading somewhere, but really don't. The choices you make seem like they might do something, but again do nothing.  The 'war assets' you collect, do nothing. In the end, none of anything that you have done throughout the game (or indeed any of the games) makes any difference to the conclusion.  It still ends up the same, and it's not all that impressive at that.So, just chalk Mass Effect 3 up to EA's bean counters.  Again, ME3 is effectively the poster child for everything that is wrong with EA's business strategy. By playing this game, you will understand why when EA takes game companies over, their franchises don't live long under EA.  If this franchise manages to survive at all, it will become a hollow vapid shell of what it once was and ME3 is already displaying this. It's likely that the next Mass Effect game released ends up being some kind of mediocre arcade-style first-person zombie shooter so that there is nothing left in common with this franchise but the name. That's also one of EA's strategies. Basically, they will use the name until it can't be used any more no matter what genre the game is. They just want your $60.Oh well, so much for Bioware (begins playing Taps).
Great game, terrible ending.  For all the hype about the &#34;plethora of endings possible&#34; from the literally dozens, if not hundreds, of decisions made through the 3 games, you basically end up with 1 ending, and it sucks.
The story is incredible and ends with an all encompassing end (now). On first release the ending was a let down, but I have played it 4 times and loved each play through. Multiplayer just kept getting better. The best multiplayer set up since halo! Bioware really made a game series that will be nearly impossible to best.
I have never played a role playing game that was so engaging.  I have no problem playing this game over and over and over.  I decided to get this game after play Mass Effect 2 which I thoroughly enjoyed very much.  You can actually feel for these charactors.  I told my son that I will not be buying any add-on through xbox live but after playing these games.......I changed my mind.  I will be getting all the add-ons!!!!  I tip my hat off to all that participated in making the trilogy.  It is funny, romantic, action packed, good story, sci-fi, artisically beautiful.  The Liara and Shepard are the best.  Can't get enough of them.UPDATEI don't know but the center of the #2 games disc cracked.  Is it me or has this happened to anyone else?  I am wondering if the disc was cheaply made.  Or maybe I roughed it up taking it our of the case.  I do love playing this game and the others.
5 reasons the ending ruins the game5) Brevity4) It is Confusing and Under-Developed3) Lore Errors, Plot Holes2) Key Philosophical Themes Are Discarded1) Player Choice Is Completely DiscardedI gave this such a low score simply because the ending was a slap in the face to fans, and I say ending because instead of the promised 17 different endings, we got one generic ending with different colors. I won't spoil anything here but it was a travesty. It would have been fine if the three endings(which were basically all the same exact thing) were ONE of the options, but not ALL of the options. I'm not asking for Shepard to end up in a field of daisies with his crew, just want an ending that makes some sense. BioWare dropped the ball big time and I won't be purchasing another one of their products until this is remedied.Update:I finally decided to give the extended cut a chance, I realize there are some glaring flaws in it as well but it is a TON better than it was. I am raising my rating to a 3 star because of bioware and them listening to us fans. They could have left us high and dry with nothing, but at least they tried.
I like the game. There was a lot of complaints of the ending, but with that new patch, it did kinda explain it more. They could have done a better job at the ending though, i wont lie. But the journey to the ending was amazing, it was really exciting. The only thing that sucks is that the Mass Effect Story is finally over, but the maker say that there will be a new  ME story with new characters sometime in the future.
ME3 was a Great game.  Best graphics, best game play, best everything.  I know a lot of people are complaining about the ending and yes it was a crappy ending.  But the game is worth playing why let 5 mins of game destroy the whole thing.  don't get me wrong yes i complained to EA and Bioware because it was not normal for the ending to be like that seemed rushed but the hour upons hours of gameplay you get our of this game are exceptional.I would recommend this to anyone that loved the first 2 just be prepared for the ending to not live up.  the story line was great the battles were better then ever.  i thought ME2 was easy on the battles so glad they made it harder on ME3.  You will love this game if you loved the other 2.  all games have faults and this one has its fault but it is worth playing.  and maybe they made it that way for a reason.  i don't know.  but i loved the game over all and don't see the point of leaving 1 star just because after hours and hours of playing i didn't like the last 5 mins.  Overall the game is a 5 star.  buy it and enjoy it......
In a nutshell, ME3 is ME2 liteif you enjoyed ME1 and never played ME2 you will enjoy ME3, but if you have played ME2 then ME3 will seem very watered down.Firstly, the locations are recycled from ME2 and then watered down, for example, the Citadel in ME2 was a playable location, in ME3 it is a static set. Every time you go there the exact same people are in the same spots saying the same lines...the ship hasn't even gotten a fresh coat of paint! and now after every mission you are in a war room and have to walk down a useless hallway to get to the ship's command center, why?in true Bioware fashion, the boss battles are huge spikes in difficulty, i guess to make up for lack of imagination? and quite annoying and needlessly frustrating.To their credit, i haven't had any show stopping bugs but no one mentions that the 360 version is on 2 disks and every once in a while the game terrorizes you with disk changes. One night i had no changes and another  night i had 5 (yes five) disk changes. P.S. the game is installed on my hard drive.I regret that i purchased this game, it is definitely a rental (if at all).
As usual this will be a no-spoiler review.Ending: Although everyone is complaining how awful the ending was, they never did look at the positives. While the ending is somewhat limited by choice, it still brought a tear to my eye, and is still my favorite game trilogy. Rather than look at the negatives, I looked at the positive storyline, and the recurrent theme that the ending produced in the series. While the ending was not perfect, it is not bad enough to cause the whole game to receive a one or two star review. Such reviewing is merely immature. The ending leaves the player still wanting more, but at the same time somewhat satisfied, which is the reaction I am sure Bioware was hoping to get at.Gameplay: The gameplay is definately an upgrade. Simplistic controls matched with advanced covering and movements made the game fun to play. While the enemies seemed somewhat repetative, they probably have the most diversity compared to the previous two games. Health does not fully recharge as it did in Mass Effect 2, so players will also have to be a bit more cautious. I found the enemies rather fun to take on, and the game overall was challenging but fun.Multiplayer: The multiplayer is nothing to write home about, but it is worth trying out. You simply work with a squad and take on various enemies. Of course, it is rather flawed. For one, if your team plays badly, everyone suffers. Also, hosting issues occur frequently. It is also somewhat repetative and I can't play it for more than a few rounds before becoming rather bored.Graphics: These graphics do not compare to those of games such as L.A. Noire, but they are still pretty good. Again, a good game shouldn't rely on good graphics, however Bioware managed to create a balance.Story: The story was excellent and it was exciting seeing my choices from the previous two games effect situations that occured in this game. It was heartbreaking and thrilling to play through the story, as many friends died and much excitment occurs. This game was honestly more thrilling than Mass Effect 2. There were a lot of side missions, and overall the game took me about 30 hours to beat, including the DLC.DLC: The From Ashes DLC is actually pretty important. While it may not seem like much, I found that the Prothean, Javik, revealed a lot about the previous cycle and had some effects to how the story played out. Plus, it was pretty cool fighting alongside an extinct species.Overall: Overall, I give the game an 8.5 out of 10. While some may have found the ending disapointing, I merely saw it as a challenge to play the entire series over again on insanity difficulty. I enjoyed the ride and though the ending is not what I expected, I would relive it all over again.
after Mass effect 1 and 2 I was very excited for this game. Unfortunately bioware decided they didn't care and released a cheep and unfinished game.The ending has nothing to do with the three previous games.The ending is nothing but choosing door 1, 2 or 3.The final image is just a silhouette photoshopped over an old desktop:  [...]Tali's picture is a poorly edited stock photo:  [...]Just play ME1 or 2 again. They are great this game is trash.
Bioware, did you know i love you? Whats that? No...no its okay...shhh...shhh...Come here i won't be rough i promise. Whats that, it's too soon? We've been at this for more than four years, i think its time to make it official. I...i don't know how you do it Bioware, but my only conclusion is that you are either made out of Stardust, or your just my RPGsnpiration.
Fantastic Game that brought a great Trilogy to an end. Highly recommend it to anyone who has played the first 2
Despite some notable and serious failings, Mass Effect 3 is a fantastic title on the whole, and for the most part constitutes a worthy entry in one of the most ambitious and original series to grace the medium of video gaming.  Perhaps the first thing fans should know about Mass Effect 3 is that it is faithful to the conventions of its predecessors with regards to gameplay and storytelling.  This is, of course, a major point in the game's favor.  Whereas Dragon Age 2 (also a Bioware game) represented a major departure from nearly everything I loved about its predecessor, in Mass Effect 3 you will find the same basic elements that made Mass Effect and Mass Effect 2 great: outstanding characters, memorable dialogue, decent plot twists, quality combat, outlandish fighting abilities, and lush hub environments.  You can still wander the gorgeous Citadel Presidium, buying items and overhearing conversations and resolving conflicts; can still launch a circuit-frying overload or devastating singularity at foes; can still trek through the corridors of your ship, the Normandy, to talk to your teammates and admire the drive core and organize your equipment.  If these core features made you fall in love with the first and second games, then you certainly will not want to miss experiencing them all over again here.  I imagine that newcomers to the series would also appreciate such things in Mass Effect 3, though I strongly recommend that they play through the previous entries or at least pick up Mass Effect 2 first.Unfortunately, it is true that the biggest defect in ME3 is its conclusion.  In a turn reminiscent of Lost and Battlestar Galactica, there is little narrative forethought in evidence, and satisfying closure is shunted in favor of a quick, vague, metaphysical, and sloppy ending.  Not only do your previous choices largely fail to come into play, but further, the major game-ending decision you are given has only the smallest influence on the brief and unsatisfying final cutscene.  Like many longtime fans, I found myself left with a surprisingly powerful  feeling of disappointment.  While any conclusion to a long entertainment experience--be it a book series or a TV series or a movie trilogy--tends to leave one with a sense of loss, this lingering emotion really ought to be more bittersweet and less purely bitter than what I now feel.  I do not think that the basic idea underlying the ending was intrinsically stupid; with a little extra work, the major plot details could have been kept, but simply told in a more compelling way.  Bioware should have made an effort to mimic the epilogue of Dragon Age: Origins, which consisted of a simple, dialogue-heavy celebratory ceremony and a series of written descriptions explaining how your choices affected the future of the realm.  Surely the time and resources spent creating two or three of ME3's missions could have instead been dedicated toward cobbling together a far more respectable ending along these lines.A few other problems with the game are worth mentioning.  For one, the cast of playable teammates has been significantly reduced to a maximum of seven, including the obnoxious first-timer James Vega, an uninteresting meathead.  Perhaps the superb twelve-person team of Mass Effect 2 spoiled me somewhat, but whatever the reason, I can't shake the sense that more squad characters would have made the game richer.  Additionally, Mass Effect 3 appears to do very little to acknowledge or incorporate decisions that are ported from ME/ME2 playthroughs, limiting itself mostly to references in conversation or occasional--though reasonably satisfying and wordy--character cameos.  This shouldn't be a surprise, since the second game was much the same way, but it's disappointing that the promise of a data-porting trilogy didn't amount to much in the end.  (Hell, the original Mass Effect had a subplot for each of Shepard's three possible background stories. Would it have killed them to throw in a few similarly context-exclusive quests or missions based on what you did to the Council and/or the Collectors?)  I should also point out that ME3 makes the poor choice of providing several romance options that do not include sex scenes.  Apparently, only some of the available characters you can romance actually lead to (relatively) full-fledged corresponding sex sequences.  Maybe I'm a pervert for caring, but these sequences have been something of a staple of the series, so I felt a bit jilted (pun intended) when I discovered that I wouldn't get to see one just because I had chosen the wrong love interest.  Finally, I was disappointed by the ridiculously over-bloated role played by the shady pro-human organization Cerberus in the game.  You end up fighting them in perhaps 40%-60% of your missions, and their degree of wealth, influence, and knowledge is irritatingly absurd in the context of the storyline.  This is symptomatic of Mass Effect 3's general tendency to incorporate some poor writing from time to time, as with the opening sequence on Earth and the overuse of the "I'll-sacrifice-myself-to-complete-the-mission" action clich&eacute;.To be sure, this is a game that has legitimate flaws.However--and this is an important "however"--there are certain areas in which ME3 reaches new heights of storytelling for the series, surpassing its predecessors and incorporating narrative devices that are, to my knowledge, unique in the field of video gaming.  In particular, I was impressed by the use of certain tiny but well-executed details in order to truly impress upon the player that the galaxy is at war, and war is hell.  I hope that I'm not spoiling too much by delving into specifics here, but there are a number of small changes that take place in the Citadel (the game's hub area and the seat of galactic politics and culture) throughout Mass Effect 3 that provide the strongest illustration of my point.  When you first arrive there after escaping the attack on Earth, the general attitude of its inhabitants is shockingly relaxed and complacent.  Sure, there are a few refugees present, but for the most part, the war is only touching lives in distant ways.  You overhear the chatter of a wealthy Volus arms dealer looking to make a profit off the war, of a military wife cheating on her husband and contemplating how to break the news to him, and of a Turian soldier saying farewell to his wife, insisting that he is unlikely to see combat.Initially, I was incensed by the ridiculous apathy of the Citadel's denizens.  How could things be so subdued here while Earth was being bathed in fire and destruction?  But then, as the game progressed, I began to notice subtle differences: the refugee camp grew, the bureaucratic lines became longer, and the conversations slipped toward darker and darker topics.  By the end of the game, matters turn truly black, with throngs of refugees keeping vigil at a massive wall covered in photographs of the dead or missing, dozens of injured soldiers and civilians littering the floor of the hospital, and scattered widows crying silently as friends or strangers reach out to console them.  A panicked Salarian tries to empty his bank account so that he can flee; medical personnel struggle to acquire adequate supplies; an Asari breaks down when you hand her a recording of her lover's last words, pulled off of a corpse you found littering some battlefield.  Bioware's writers have transformed the simple presence of a hub world--a staple of many RPGs--into a chillingly atmospheric exploration of the horrors of war.  Indeed, Mass Effect 3 achieves this effect in a deeper way than many of the war novels I have read and war movies I have seen, because it allowed me to interact with its world actively as a *player*, rather than passively as a mere reader or viewer.A few other solid innovations made ME3 stand out.  As many gamers and critics have noted, the RPG elements have finally been effectively balanced in this entry.  While Mass Effect drowned the player in a tidal wave of upgrade items, and Mass Effect 2 featured a grossly oversimplified framework that allowed for virtually no customization, Mass Effect 3 finds a satisfying harmony between these two extremes.  Each weapon can be equipped with two upgrades, and any upgrades you own are updated automatically.  For example, if I'm using a sniper rifle equipped with a level III scope that improves its accuracy, and I buy a level IV scope from a store on the Citadel, then that level IV upgrade is instantly applied to my sniper rifle without any hassle or redundant inventory items.  Entire weapons, too, can be easily upgraded to improve their damage, accuracy, and ammo capacity--as in, I can upgrade from a Mattock Heavy Rifle I to a Mattock Heavy Rifle II, and so on.  I also thought that the moral choices in Mass Effect 3, while not necessarily mind-bendingly brilliant, were more complex and ambiguous than those of any other Bioware game I have played.  I was often forced to make split-second and sometimes traumatic decisions, or take sides in legitimately difficult political debates.  (Should I support weapons sales to civilians during the war?  Should I allow the Citadel's police force to illegally access business' video feeds in order to search for traitors?  Should I recommend that the hospital staff begin harshly rationing their provisions in order to prepare for future shortages?)  Even the much-despised ending of the game resisted giving the player a clear choice between good and evil--a fact which deserves some small praise, in my view.In sum, Mass Effect 3 has its share of pros and cons alike.  Yes, the ending is a genuine disappointment, the playable cast is small, the game doesn't do much to acknowledge your decisions from ME or ME2, and the non-explicit romances are almost as annoying as Cerberus' inflated role in the storyline.  But at the same time, this epic third title delivers all of the classic elements that have defined the Mass Effect series from the start, even as it breaks new narrative ground, refines its upgrade system, and incorporates a substantial number of mature moral dilemmas.  I understand that many feel betrayed by the last hour or so of play, but I think it would be a huge mistake to write off the entire game on that basis alone.  Mass Effect 3 sucked me in.  If you are a video gamer, you deserve to pick yourself up a copy of this title and set aside a week to lose yourself (again) in Bioware's vibrant and immersive science fiction universe.
As a big fan of BioWare games, and Mass Effect in particular, it was really important for the trilogy to come to a great conclusion. Mass Effect 3 doesn't disappoint. An excellent battle system, terrific writing and voice work, and a decisive ending wraps it up neatly.If you are familiar with the series, this entry takes the familiar feel and expands on it. All of your previous decisions from the earlier games in the series can be imported, to give weight to all of the choices that you have made. The optional DLC adds some great pieces to the story, and I would really recommend getting those as well.The multiplayer was the one part that I had reservations about going in, but I was really surprised by the quality. The squad based horde mode was simple to pick up, but has plenty of depth and replay-ability through the many characters and weapons that can be unlocked. I spent many more hours playing the multiplayer than I did the actual story itself, and now consider it to be one of the best parts of the game.Mass Effect 3 does a wonderful job of tying a bow on the story of Commander Shepard. The burning questions get answered, the story is riveting from start to finish, and the multiplayer will keep you coming back for more. Perfect.
The game was great, the day one dlc was good, but the ending was so bad I wanted to cry.
I was a mass effect fan until the disaster that is this game's ending, and therefore the trilogy's ending, ruined it for me. It's a series based on choice, and in the end you're forced into essentially one ending that is highly disappointing. I am sad to say I found the endings (there are slight variations) for lack of a better word; annoying.
I have worked in the customer service industry for many years. The managers always stressed that the last person the customer will see either imprints a positive or negative impression. This impression will be the memory that the customer will remember most vividly, and, if it was negative, it won't matter if the rest of the customer's time in the store was positive. This was my feeling about Mass Effect 3.Adding to my feelings of negativity, I am very angered that Bioware decided unilaterally to make my character,a paragon, into a war criminal. By destroying the Mass Relays, Commander Shepard destroyed an unknown number of solar systems. Kotaku summarized it best:"Destroying the relays nullifies not only the major decisions Shepard has made, but even the mission she undertook. The Reapers did not harvest all life, Shepard murdered it instead, eradicating not only all the principal civilized worlds of her time but also any primitive cultures unlucky enough to live near a mass relay." ([...])No matter how you might want to rationalize the destruction of the mass relays, the Codex placed an emphasis on what will happen if a mass relay ruptured."Although it has recently been demonstrated that mass relays can be destroyed, a ruptured relay liberates enough energy to ruin any terrestrial world in the relay's solar system." (Mass Effect 3 Secondary Codex, "The Reaper War - Desperate Measures")I had hopes that Bioware would realize their mistake; unfortunately, it was and is becoming clear that this company will not change their ending. I am not asking for a happy ending, as some may allege. I am asking for an ending that respects the series and that respects the fans.I have decided to sell my copy at Gamestop, and will be using the money to support a company, CDProjekt (The Witcher 2), that respects their fans. The developer, responding to criticism of its ending, has added a new final act, along with other new features. They didn't use surrogates to attack their critics. For PC owners, they can get the dlc free, and XBOX360 owners, like myself, we can get the new version of the game when it is released on April 17th.
As a huge fan of the series I found this one lacking as time went on and from what I've heard on various forums that I'm not the only one disappointed. I'm probably halfway through the game and while it looks and plays amazing the fact that they tried to make you play online multiplayer in order to have an easier time getting the best ending is just a cheap shot that's going to cost them fans. Multiplayer should never effect what is normally a single player game. They took the same cheap and vague ending style as Deus Ex: Human Revolution. This could very well be a coffin nail in the Mass Effect franchise unless they go online only. What they need to do is what Bethesda did with Fallout 3 and make a DLC that adds a further storyline or better ending. Wait for this to be used, at this rate you should find a ton of them cheap soon.
How dare all of you people rate this a bad game just for the ending!!! it is not fair to give a GREAT game a 2 or 3 star just for the ending, i will not try and defend the fact that yes the ending was not great BUT it was not the WORST ending i have seen. the gameplay is a step up from ME2. You can add mods to your guns to make them have more damage, add a scope ect, the story took me about 25 hours to complete, mostly because i explored a lot. there is a surprizely fun co op- hoard mode that is better than any hoard mode i have played, you can choose from human players to aliens such as krogans, salarins, ect. the graphics look GREAT as well, the cut scenes look better than ever. the game looks and plays GREAT, so i cant see why any mass effect fan would give this game a 2 star, hell i cant see why anyone would give this game a 2 star. so people who are looking to buy this game please do not get put off by all the bad reviews, so the ending was not GREAT but it was not bad either, the co op makes up for it i think. i only gave a 4 star because the ending, any less would be crazy.
Not much I can say that hasn't already been said; loved the game and the series save for the ending that has countless things wrong with it. It's so un-Mass Effect style in that your choices are so limited and your previous choices are irrelevant. Closure, more choice and interactivity, and seeing how your choices affect the ultimate outcome NEED to be incorporated into this if Bioware wants to turn the disaster down.Why?BECAUSE IT'S WHAT THEY PROMISED US.
I'll keep this review short and leave the ending out of the talk aswell. If you leave the ending out, is this a good game? I don't thinkso. I wanted to prove the other reviews wrong and wanted to see the goodin this game but it's hard to come by. Even the plus points mostly seemto be absence of the "boring" gameplay factors. I won't have any spoilersin here either.Pros:+ You can import your ME1/2 character into this game - somewhat+ The gameplay has its moments despite Admiral Hackett's interactions+ The game makes a fair attempt at reflecting choices made in ME1 & ME2+ No more annoying mining/researching/grinding gameplay elements+ No more silly/ridiculous mini-games for "hacking"+ It's nice to see most of the earlier characters returnCons:- It's almost 2 months since the game came out and patch 1.02 doesn't fix import- The game has a fair share of bugs- The voice acting is, for lack of a better word, lame- The dialogue lines are pretty boring- A pretty lame attempt was made at showing sacrifices- After every mission, I have to talk to Hackett and navigate through thatsilly screen animation? Are you kidding me Bioware? Did you guys play this game?The short version: A very very disappointing game and I feel ripped off bothfinancially and emotionally. I put in a considerable amount of time towardsthe first two games and now Bioware/EA decided they can give me the finger.I'd leave a single star except that I did enjoy some of the gameplay in the firsthalf.Oh, the opening cinematics were pretty lame too.
EDITED: October 15, 2012When I first beat Mass Effect 3 in March I hated it. The game was very fun but the ending made you feel that none of your choices mattered. Since then Bioware has released a free downloadable content that adds more to the ending called Extended Cut. This has made the ending of the game much easier to understand. This is also the reason why I have to rewrite my review.Mass Effect 3  is a great game that I continue to play over and over. I can't get enough of it. The story takes place months after Mass Effect 2. Shepard has been arrested after the events in the Arrival DLC (when Shepard blew up a Batarian planet). He/she has been detained and is awaiting trial back on Earth. Out of the blue, Reapers attack and the planet is overwhelmed. Admiral Anderson helps Shepard escape Vancouver but ends up having to stay behind. It is now up to Shepard to travel across the universe and build an army to fight the reapers. Many old teammates and love interests return in this game that many players will love.Certain aspects of gameplay in Mass Effect 3 are impacted by choices made in previous games. When starting a new game, players with saved files from Mass Effect and Mass Effect 2 are given the option of importing them into Mass Effect 3. Upon finishing the game, a New Game+ option allows players to continue playing after the main story ends, starting again with their finished Shepard to collect items they missed the first time around. Mass Effect 3 has three pre-set campaign modes: Action Mode, Story Mode, and RPG Mode.  In Action Mode, conversations have automatic replies and a normal combat difficulty. In Story Mode, conversations have manual replies and a minimal combat difficulty. In RPG Mode, which is reflective of the typical Mass Effect experience, conversations have manual replies and a normal combat difficulty.Overall, the RPG elements in the game have been improved over those in Mass Effect 2, with a more detailed leveling up system and increased weapon customization. Players can also customize their weapons with different scopes, mods, barrels, and ammo types. There are 25 weapon mods total -- five per weapon type -- and each of them will have multiple power levels to collect.Mass Effect 3 offers a multiplayer co-op mode called Galaxy at War. In this mode, players are able to play alongside up to three other players online in unique missions that can impact the outcome of the single player campaign. Players have the ability to fight against 3 different races. They are the Reapers, Geth, and Cerberus (Collectors have also been added with DLC). Battles take place over a choice of more than 15 maps, with 4 choices of difficulty. They are Bronze (Easy), Silver (Normal), Gold (Hard), and Platinum (Very hard). Platinum maps will randomly spawn tank units from random races in addition to the race your fighting against. An example might be a Reaper ravager fighting alongside Cerberus troops or a Geth Prime assisting Reapers. Each map lasts for 10 rounds, with players defending against waves of attack, each getting progressively harder.I personally love multiplayer. I play it more than single player now. So far Bioware has released 3 multiplayer DLC packs and they've all been free. New chapters and challenges are steadily added to keep players interested in the game. Altogether, Mass Effect 3 is a very fun game and should not be missed.
Aside from the hugely disappointing ending that changes colors. This game is trash compared to the first two.  The journal in this one is a major step backwards from 2. Your choices from the two prior do not impact any major parts of the game(just like in 2), it was like hey thanks for saving me see you later. !!!!!spoiler!!!!! The mission on Tuchanka where you face the rachni queen. In the original you had the choice of killing the queen or sparing her but no matter what decision you made a rachni queen still appears.At the end of me2 you have the choice of 'destroying' the human reaper or handing it over to cerberus but not matter what you do it still appears in ME3 on the level with kei leng. The option of rewriting or destroying the geth in 2 is pointless because you have to rewrite them again in 3. The game is full of events and missions where your choices become obsolete. The whole concept of overhearing pedestrians in order to bring up a mission to scan a planet for 'war assets'. Bioware couldn't make some of those be actual missions. The day one dlc is probably the biggest rip off in the history of gaming considering the hype that this game had before release. Bioware knew they could made a few more million off of gamers by not adding it in to begin with since it did get delayed an extra 2 and a half months. The extra character doesn't really add anything to the story other than when you go to the asari homeworld and find out the gods they worshipped were just the protheans.  Somehow the collectors, who were the main enemy from 2, were big during the prothean era but werent even mentioned during me1. The melee attack is half assed. Vega is useless and what happened to all the characters from 2. All of a sudden they cant join with you for some bs reason. Joker falls in love with EDI the AI.  Half assed story that I wouldnt believe if my life depended on it. Somehow people can still be petty when faced with extinction. Reapers are all of a sudden weaker unlike in me1 when Sovereign easily took out half the fleet fighting it. It was said that 1 reaper could take out an entire planet yet somehow humanity is putting up a great fight against hundreds if not thousands of them.  Why do reapers need ground forces? Why is humanity such a major threat to the reapers? is shepard that much of a bamf that they have to take out all humans first?  the scanning of a system get annoying when you have to constantly run from reapers after 2 scans.  Bioware makes you feel left out if you didnt romance Liara in 1 by making ashley/kaiden romance subpar and me2 romance obsolete. Apparently everyone overlooked a person still living on eden prime that wasnt human(the dlc character). this is the smallest complaint i have but i hate it when you refer to marines as soldier and completely jack up the rank structure. soldier, sailor, airman, marine. each branch has is on rank structure do some research Bioware, activision did it with Call of duty 4. The sole purpose of me2 was to introduce the illusive man because Cerberus plays such a huge role in 3 which is another thing that every gamer overlooks. why the hell is Cerberus going gainst everything cmdr shepard does like trying to prevent the fertile female krogan from going back to the krogan. why did bioware have to add multiplayer to an already working franchise. if it isnt broke dont fix it. All multiplayer really is is a cheap knockoff of gears of war horde mode with horrible controls. once you complete a mission on a planet you can not revisit it. the glitches are annoying but arent too bad but when compared to me2 its bad. now the ending, how in any way is this a good ending. you screw over the entire galaxy. regardless of what bioware says and i have the guide to prove what they claim there is only 1 ending with 3 different color: red green blue. There are not 16 endings just one. same cut scenes after you 'make your final choice' just very very slightly adjusted depending on  if you merge control or destroy the reapers. not the epic ending we were promised.Worst ending in gaming history. Major plot holes. Limited party members. Completely ubsurb story (all you have to do is think about it a little people). do not but this game it will ruin the first 2. it did for me. i traded in all 3 for 360 all of which were collectors editions and 2 for ps3, me3 was a collectors edition. i even gave away all the comic book tie ins because the last 1k hours of gameplay was just a waste of timei have a feeling some people are going to get all butt hurt bc they arent unbiased  to see all the fault with this game and will take this personally.
The Mass Effect trilogy, like many, is something I hold dear and have come to cherish over the last five years. In my opinion, both Mass Effects along with the first Bioshock and Red Dead Redemption are among the best games of this generation! The choices and characters were so well written and believable and engaging with them made you care for them. Though with Mass Effect 3 I feel like, many betrayed by Bioware.All the hours I poured into this game, the decisions I made all felt pointless at the end of the game. So many questions left unanswered and unfinished I wanted Reaper carnage bliss and an ending where Shepard gets the alien/girl of his/her dreams and leads the galaxy through the aftermath and recovery of the Reapers or something like this where every sacrific and decision paid off (yes, I like happy endings). The relationships I formed and my love interests, what happened to them? Many of my favourite characters didn't actually return as squad mates they just basically had cameo roles and many died and nothing could be done about it! Though I'm extremely happy that Ashley was back and I could continue my relationship with her (yay) along with improved cover and shooting mechanics as well as improved weapon customisation than the previous games which impressed me.I really hope that Bioware responds to all this negative feedback from loyal fans. Maybe they should release a re-edited ending in a patch or in a future DLC release. Please! Don't let this defining trilogy end on a note like this!
Dang...last scene I had in Mass Effect 2 was Miranda and my guy lying on the bed cuddling.Where did she go?pfffft...probably ran off with Morrigan. Ah...Miranda and Morrigan. Only in my dreams, baby!Game is great. Am savoring it. Got it's good points and a few bad points but overall..off to save the galaxy yet again....A hero's work is never done!Updated note: Am about 12 hours into it. I still love it. It feels a tad different then the 2nd game (my favorite) but I still am enjoying it. I could not stop. For me, if I want to keep playing, that is all the review I need. Only one real complaint....it will be over too soon. Wish it would go on forever. I will miss the characters. But, with this series, I will revisit and play over and over from the first game to the last minute of the 3rd. Thanks Bioware for many many hours of enjoyment. I have enjoyed the books as well.Enjoy everyone and if on 12/21/2012 the reapers come to end the world, well....we will be prepared! Ha! I can make a head shot very well. :DUpdated:I changed my star rating after I beat the game. I am completely confused about the ending. I am not even sure wtf I even chose. I feel exactly like I did at the end of the movie 2001 space odyssey. Dunno..maybe you have to either be a genius or on drugs to understand that ending. I am rather upset and speechless.My final update and ultimate conclusion:I watched the ending again and listened. Trying to fore go the emotions and just listening. I can understand the concept. Also, I did not know there was a cut scene after the credits. By chance, this time, I was busy doing something and did not stop game as credits rolled. Overall, I have enjoyed the series and don't regret playing it. I would have chosen a different ending, however, to leave fans more satisfied. But, without the knowledge as to what, if anything, Bioware plans on doing with the series....I can not give a complete opinion of the ending.Update:I tried playing the game again. I could not get into it. The ending has made the game (and the entire series) have no replay for me just like DA2 so I stand by my 1 star review.Update: 06/26/12I played the DLC just now. I changed my rating from 1 to 4 stars. For me, the ending was much better albeit not the perfect ending I would prefer. That being said...this is why I changed it.1. DLC was free (should have ended that way to begin with..just sayin)2. Conversation with the catalyst was more involved.  I was able to ask deeper questions to get a better understanding of what was what.3. Even thought another choice was given...it would not be a choice I would have chosen even in original ending. But, the choice I would have made and did make given the 3 choices, was more explained, heart felt, and most of all complete. Even though my Shepard perished, he did not do so in vain. He made a difference and that is all I ever wanted.I feel more satisfied now. But, am still a bit angry that it was not written more completely to begin with so no 5 star rating. I must admit, Bioware, with this DLC...has renewed a little faith with me. But, only time will tell if I completely trust them again. At any rate, Thanks for doing the DLC..I know it was not mandatory..but, is appreciated, all the same.
I've been a life-long lover of the character driven narrative. In stories, in games, you name it. It's already been said here so many times I won't elaborate...the ending to this game that had so much potential and initial high quality is embarrassing. I can only think that...for some reason...Bioware/EA felt rushed towards the end and allowed things to be glossed over. It surely couldn't be the act of a writer's actual willing choice after thinking things through, my 5yr old niece would have done better.One potential possibility that I do wonder about however...is this meant to be some huge cliffhanger? In the classic sense of the old movie style cliffhangers? It's the only other thing that makes sense. Still, even if this were so Bioware, you caused a lot of fans to lose faith in your product. Including myself.For those who have yet to play this game. All I can tell you is, don't bother, stick with ME1 and 2. If you can't resist, wait till it's a bargain bin special. It won't take long, this stinker will tank fast.
when you buy mass effect 3 you get a free online pass which costs $10 or 800 points otherwise. i also got this on sale for cheap and its awesome.
I can't honestly give this game one star because I'd be being dishonest as most of this game is up there in quality with the best RPGs of all time.  However, to mess up an ending so badly to such a great game is a huge travesty that will have impact on Bioware and EA for years to come.  Please don't buy this game just because you are curious about how bad the ending is and wait until Bioware and EA release alternate endings as *FREE* downloadable content.
Mass Effect - The original game was fantastic, a real favoriteMass Effect 2 - Lots of changes, story is side tracks, didn't care much for it.Mass Effect 3It starts out a disaster if you've played the previous Mass Effect games and you're importing a custom character. A flaw that should have been clearly obvious to BioWare was overlooked, and has yet to be patched kicks off the problems. Once you get past that, you get into the game.Mass Effect 3 feels refined. What Mass Effect 2 could have been. There's clear understanding of your weapons and stats again. You can also mod your weapons again, and the ability/skill system is fleshed out to allow a little more preference. You can actually run again, instead of that poor excuse of a 2 second sprint. There's jumping over openings, climbing ladders, etc.Gone are the annoying mini games for hacking and bypassing. No more scanning planets for untold countless hours to find resources.The story feels back on track, and you're actually going to finish what you originally started in Mass Effect. Lots of returning characters, although most of them are there just to make a cameo appearance and add something to the story as a whole. Past choices feel like they might mean something in the grand scheme of things.Then you find yourself looking at the mission log... To find that it barely exists. There's no current status of a mission, no progress report. Let's not even talk about the fact that every time you bring it up it's near the bottom making you scroll all the way up to see what is active. You start to find that the game is very linear, and although your old choices may somehow come back to bite you, the end game result will pretty much be the same.So after sinking dozens of hours into it, you reach the end. A two minute cutscene that is basically the same thing each time just slightly tweaked. There is little to no closure, real value in everything you did (especially if you played all 3 games entirely which adds up well over 100 hours). As an example it would be like ending Lord of The Rings with Frodo throwing the ring into the fire, and bam! Cut to the credits... Or ending Star Wars with Ackbar saying "It's a trap!" It sets out to be something great, and goes out in a fiery blaze of failures. Hence I call it the Hindenburg of games.Overall until the last hour of it all, I could have believed it was a good game. It was a good game until it came into the final hours, and you can clearly feel the whole thing unravel and fall apart effortlessly as if they ran out of time and funds and they had to slap on "THE END" somewhere. It's so bad it ruins the whole experience.The writing wasn't that bad, and if you played the previous games there are plenty of references and jokes cracked by characters like Joker and Garrus. The acting though fell apart in Mass Effect 3. I often felt the voice actors weren't even trying to play their roles, but just reading the lines like Microsoft Sam/Geth.There are some graphical glitches, although nothing game breaking. One in particular I ran into, a characters head was on backwards and twitching like something out of a horror movie.Having bought the Collectors Edition, I also got the Prothean DLC, which is a complete joke. The extra mission itself is short enough you could make a cup of tea in the time it takes to finish, and what the character adds to the game is very little. Some extra dialog, but nothing worth $10. Not even $5 imo.This is likely the last BioWare game I will purchase.
Right, this is probably one of the most painful reviews I've ever written. I was a long-time fan of Mass Effect. In fact my fist RPG ever was Mass Effect 1. I had never played an RPG before that game. Once I started I could not stop playing RPGs, now I'm hooked to them, all thanks to Mass Effect. Even now 5 years on it still gives me goose bumps when I start a new game of Mass Effect 1 on my X360 and hear its compelling music score.I didn't expect much of the multiplayer but when they offered it for free pre-release I was blown away, it was utterly compelling and addictive. Launch day arrived and so did my collector edition copy (securing a CE copy in the UK has been a major ordeal). After playing for two weeks I feel let down and am completely disappointed. Here is why:1. Could not import my ME2 character. For a series whose main premise is to carry  decisions over it is simply unacceptable that on release day you are unable to carry on with a character/s that has taken you hundreds of hours. Even now, weeks after release there is no patch. What happened to the over 1,000 variables that would carry over to the ME3 instalment? Nothing. All your trouble for nothing. All your past decision serve no purpose, all the DLC you bought to add those cool squad mates in ME2 are gone; just great guys. Only because of this flaw the game deserves nothing less than a 5/10.2. Day-one DLC From Ashes. I got it free with my CE but I find it completely unfair that such an important and relevant character for the whole series such as Jarvik is cut out of the core game and bundled in a paid for DLC. Every gamer and fan of the Mass Effect game should have free and unrestricted access to this DLC from day one. It is not "the icing on the cake", it is a core part of the Mass Effect series. Same as you did with Sebastian in The Exiled Prince DLC from DA2. You cut it out of the main game. Hello? Unbounded corporate greed you say?  DLCs have to add to the core game, not detract from it.3. Terrible ending. How on earth is this possible? After 5 years waiting for this moment and this is what we get? Reeeally? You must be joking. This major sloppy and inexcusable flaw for a game of this calibre, which was dubbed "the Star Wars of this generation", is what makes the score fall to 3/10.4. ME2 was already streamlined from the first game but ME3 is completely watered down, it is not an RPG, it is a shooter with some dialogue. You only have the illusion of choice. You are constantly railroaded around like in DA2, extremely annoying and disappointing. The facts that you can now shoot with more guns and tinker them doesn't add complex RPG elements. This brings the score down to 2/10.5. What happened to the epic music score from ME1? Gone. There is no memorable set piece in this game unlike its predecessors. Score falls down to 1/10.Bioware have you not learnt from Dragon Age 2 crass mistakes? Please do not tell us you did not expect this fan backlash or polarizing reviews. You already pulled that one out of your hat.ME1 was a landmark RPG in gaming history that well-deserves a 10/10 even now five years on. ME2 was a solid shooter that deserved an 8/10. ME3 does not even deserve to be branded under the "Mass Effect" name. Very poor gaming, terrible ending.Bioware pull yourself together and smell the coffee before it is too late. You must change your ways and go back to your core roots. You've lost the plot and you are steadily losing your fan base, us who pay your mortgages.Drakan
I can not stress how big of a fan I am of the ME universe and my Femshep.  I have put in over 200 hours playing ME 1 & 2 several times.  I even own a model of the Normandy.  Having said that...I will never again buy another Bioware or EA game.  They have completely ruined the entire series by the disgusting ending they gave us.  I will not spoil the ending for those of you that have not yet played it (though there are several reviews here that have already done so).  The ending literally made me sick to my stomach, followed by white-hot burning anger.  The game is great, does most things right, except you literally only see any of the teammates you assembled previously for seconds in cameos.  It also seems that none of your previous choices matter at all.  I mean not one iota of a smidgen of a difference.  WTF?  You never get any closure to previous problems or storylines and your relationships that you have spent countless hours massaging into a veritable gigantic force are left with huge open questions as to what the heck happened to them.  There are enough holes in the story/ending to fill the entire galaxy.  I am so hugely disappointed, disgusted and angered at what they have done to this great series.  This article expresses the exact reason for my hatred very eloquently: (Looks like Amazon doesn't like links.  Just go to Game Front and type in Mass Effect Ending Hatred.)I also wanted to speak about Multiplayer.  It is buggy as heck.  I have been disconnected from the server at least a dozen times, most of the time I am in the last wave and about to be extracted or half way through the waves.  One time I finished all the waves, was extracted and got kicked off the server: "lost connection".  Of course I lose all of my experience and credits.  I hate you EA/Bioware.
So, after completing Mass Effect 3 last night, I have only really have one thing to say. This game, this series, has moved me more than anything I've ever experience. Not just in books or film or anything like that. I mean media period. The characters are believable, loveable or even hateable. No matter what every single character makes you feel something. Every single plot point makes you feel something even. Anger, sadness, joy, you name it. I truly fell on love with this universe over the past four years. I have become so emotionally invested that on numerous occasions I shed tears, leaped in joy and shouted "YES". Needless to say Mass Effect as a whole has had a profound effect on me. Every plotline resolved itself in a very satisfying way that exceeded my expectations. Best part is that they can resolve in a different way depending on your choices. It's one of the best Scifi epics I've ever seen period. Unfortunately there is something that does bog this game down. The ending. It is perhaps the most disappointing thing about the game. That's not to say it's the worst ending ever. It's bitter sweet, tragic and there are some good ideas burred there, unfortunately a rushed and sloppy execution ruin it. It's not what I wanted, and it almost felt like everything I'd invested in the series didn't really amount to anything. It did, but that feeling wasn't there. Take Mass Effect 2's ending, perhaps one of the best finales in the history of gaming, it made me feel triumphant, great, like I had really accomplished something. Mass Effect 3's has no such effect. I guess from an emotional standpoint it fails where it should have succeeded. It was too complex when it needed to be simple. It was bold, but the payoff was not worth the Buildup. But, what I've spent the past day trying thinking about, and the conclusion I've come to is that it's not about the ending. The ending doesn't really matter to me. The Journey I took with these characters in this universe is what I am going to remember fondly. Mass Effect is perhaps my favorite series of games ever, and I'm glad I experienced it. If the ending falters so be it, at least I still have everything else to love.With that out of the way, I feel I have to talk about something besides the story. The import system returns and works brilliantly to connect the three games together. You run into people you've previously met and just casual mentions remind you of what you'd done. You really should play the first two by the way. Starting at the second or third game would be a mistake despite what the marketing says. This series works so well because it's all connected, and missing out on any of it would cheapen the experience. The gameplay is vastly improved from Mass Effect 2. The combat is intense, Guns handle amazingly and none of them feel useless. You can mod them all as well. This means that chances are your weapons will be tailored to your liking no matter what. The new weight system, which determines how fast your powers cool down depending on how many guns you carry, coupled with the ability to carry any number/kind of guns you want helps make you feel even more in control. The powers are all improved as well. They can be upgraded in several different ways thanks to improved skill trees. This helps for strategizing and customizing your character completely. It takes the best aspects of both Mass Effect 1 and 2 and combines them. The AI is considerably more intelligent. They are clever, resourceful and it makes for a great challenge. There are a wide variety of them as well. Mainly it's the Reaper ground forces, Cerberus and the Geth. All of them require a different tactic and each of them are distinct. The sound is brilliant as well, the guns sound realistic, the music is powerful and it really sets the tone from the story. The Voice acting is top notch, with every returning actor delivering their best performances. The Cut scenes are very well directed as well, though some occasional bugs can disrupt the immersion, but it's so minor that I don't even care. The Graphics are good, while not the best and starting to kind of show their age, Mass Effect is still a beautiful game. Textures could be better and some pop in rears its ugly head every here and there, but again, it's forgivable. This is especially made apparent by the massive scale of the set pieces. When you see Reapers descending towards Vancouver at the beginning of the game, you really see how big they are, nay, you feel how big they are. The newest and probably most innovative thing about the game is the war room galaxy readiness system. You have to search the galaxy for resources, war assets and support in order to have a chance of taking Earth back from the Reapers. There are so many ways to do this it felt a little overwhelming. I spent hours on the Citadel just doing side quests to gain support. Every little bit counts in this game and it really feels that way. With that I shall segue into what is perhaps the most controversial aspect of this game, the Multiplayer. I am happy to report that this component is both totally optional and a lot of fun. It's a 4 player class based co-op mode that requires you to survive wave after wave of Geth, Reapers or Cerberus. After a few rounds you have an objective that gets you money that you can use to buy more weapons, classes and equipment. You fight them as several classes from Vanguards to infiltrators. The characters you create are your own, you can customize them similar to Shepard, but to a smaller degree. This multiplayer helps you in the overall progress of the game but like I said, it's totally optional and I didn't need to play much to be completely ready to fight the Reapers.So, Mass Effect 3 is, in a word, amazing. It has affected me in a more profound way than anything else due to Bioware's uncanny ability to get me so emotionally invested. The ending falters, but you should not let it ruin the series for you. This series is perhaps the best trilogy of this gaming generation. It improves on ME2 in every way and is a strong contender for Game of the Year. But above all that, it moved me emotionally in a way that I didn't think was possible.10 out of 10
I've noticed a lot of the low star reviews for this game are very unfair. Yes I agree the last 10 minutes of the game (the last maybe 1%) threw everyone for a loop but the other 99% of the game is great.Anyone who has played Mass Effect 1 or 2 won't be disappointed and will be in for a fun ride.
Look by now you have read enough to form some kind of mindset about this game but I still say play it. Yes they could have done the ending better then what they did but the game is still GOOD! Regardless what people wrote, voted, or who to blame this game is worth the time. The ending you can find in other reviews, what made that person upset about the whole package you can find some where else, blaming Bioware and EA for whatever reasons you can find them in other reviews. Me? I'm going to give it straight:1. They fixed where you scan for resources on planets (this is a plus)2. The game runs smoother. (less crashes then ME2)3. There is a weapons upgrade. (ME2 or ME1 didn't have this)4. More suits of armor (all free and not DLC)5. Great sound6. Great story7. A blast to playWhat has people bent out of shape is the ending and other things I think didn't really take away from the game at all. Again not the best and its by far not the worse either compared to other games on the market. Hell I'll go one even further to say that if you played Mass Effect at all you need to play this one. I don't get paid to write reveiws. But I can understand why some gamers feel the way that they do. I really did like ME3 cause there was a story here and characters that you will care about. Bottomline is don't let the bad comments or low score keep you from playing a game that really did take a chance on a story. Again the end is not the best but its not the worse ending to a great story.
Most of the 5 star reviews haven't even beaten the game, how can you rate it if you haven't beaten it? I watched the first 20 mins of this movie and I can say without seeing the rest that it is a 5 star movie worthy of an Oscar.Seriously, Bioware you need to fix this. There is no point to any N7 missions, muliplayer, War Assets or characters you assisted through the game that aren't crew. None of that is in the ending. You get the same one no matter what. WTF!? Why am I working hard to get war assets then!? Why play any other missions than the main ones? What happens to the rest of your friends? Wrex, Miranda, Samara, Kirahhe, Kasumi, Zaheed... etc. Is everyone on the Citadel dead then? where did they go they didn't? So I saved the council multiple times so they can die off screen and you don't even tell me they die?! So many plot holes what were you thinking?! Years of empty promises, lies and more lies. I feel betrayed. I've been depressed for the past couple of days thinking about this is the end to all my favorite characters they all just die off screen, and no I don't want you to explain it in ME4 I won't be buying it. I want the ending to ME3 now. Not explained later.PS: Thanks for day one DLC btw. Yeah the Prothean didn't add to the story at all it felt all extra.../sarcasmPPS: "We wouldn't do it any other way. How could you go through all three campaigns playing as your Shepard and then be forced into a bespoke ending that everyone gets? But I can't say any more than that..." - Mike GambleLOL
So we've all heard about how terrible this game's ending is and the score on Amazon reflects this.  I just started playing the game a week ago and have not gotten to the end, so this review has nothing to do with the ending (which I have tried really hard to avoid reading spoilers about it on the net).Amazing ties to the other games.  You meet Ashley/Kaiden and they actually have a good sized personal story, so it is neat to think of all the content that isn't there because you went the other direction so long ago.  You also get the help of Wrex, assuming he didn't die in the first one.  He also has a pretty big part in the story, so I kind of wonder who is in his place if he did die.  The bug queen makes a return as well, so you see your decision come back again.  I've only played about 8 to 10 hours so far and I have been very impressed with the throwbacks to the previous games, and I'm sure that there are going to be plenty more.RPG wut?  OK, I think we can stop calling this game an RPG because it simply isn't.  It's a shooter with a leveling system.  You no longer have an inventory to manage and once you get an item once, it just 'unlocks' so you can give that weapon to as many companions that can use it.  This concept is even further enforced by the fact that when you enter a mission area, you pull out your weapon and you can never put it away.  It really looks like a third person shooter through and through.  They even add an option so it will automatically make dialog choices for you.  It is very clear that they are catering to a different audience than ME1 was trying to capture.They also took out the resource grind.  It got very boring in ME2 going to every planet and using the scanner to find resources.  I wanted to slit my wrists trying to get resources, so thank god that was removed.  There is still a scanner/probe system, but the radar points you right to it and there is only 1 per planet.So it looks like the few companions that I have unlocked is it.  I don't really mind the fewer companions since I only ever used 2 anyway.  I think it actually adds a lot to the character development to focus on fewer people.  I have Liara and Garrus, so I couldn't be happier.Kinect - meh, they really hyped up the Kinect usage, but it is really garbage.  It is much faster and reliable to use the in game menu (plus, it pauses the combat) to issue commands.  Plus, you feel like a complete idiot trying to say the dialog lines only to be repeated by Shepard on the screen.  Or standing in front of a door and saying 'open' instead of pressing A on the controller.  It is really just a gimmick that adds no value to the game.Combat is fluid.  The combat is very smooth and it feels like a great shooter.  The enemies aren't that smart, so I am a little disappointed in the AI.  The enemy will often move into a flanking position only to retreat and go back to fighting head on, which makes no sense.  I have only died a couple of times and that was due to stupidity on my part.Ending?  Like I said, I haven't beaten the game yet, but I am going to max my War Asset/Readiness score before I beat the game.  I will edit the review with my thoughts when that happens.Edit (5/24/2012):So I finished the game and the ending was VERY climactic and was executed near flawlessly.  One thing that kind of bugged me was that your final decision has 3 choices, none of which are impacted by your prior choices.  However, the last decision was not an easy one.  Throughout the series, the game was full of black and white choices, obviously good and evil, but that was not the case in the end.  Each option had its downsides and none of them would be 'good' or 'evil' so it was not an easy choice to make.  It was a great ending to an amazing series.  I really don't see what all the fuss is about.
Before I finished the game I heard of all the articles about outraged fans complaining about the ending and I thought "how bad can it be?  The game's great so far and I'm sure the die hard fans are just picky."... Boy was I in for a surprise.  I now join the thousands of gamers here to warn the rest of you to not play this game, as it'll leave you feeling sour and cheated.To be completely fair, the game itself is really fun, the quality is top notch compared to previous versions, multiplayer is great, but at the same time, there are plenty of high quality game in this market.  Others are out there trying to win the hearts of the audience.
10/10,Ending was awesome i loved it!everyone else that cry about it is just upset they can`t make a game this great.Buy it and enjoy. Don`t follow the sheep.
This is not a &#34;bad&#34; product. I simply did not enjoy the game. What I did play with friends was fun but overall I didn't have the time to get invested in the single player that it deserves.I don't like how EA manages their accounts and payments. The way they do used games and dlc frankly sucks.Sign of the times I suppose.
Looking at the reviews and seeing folks getting lambasted for their positive reviews, it shows me how frustrated people are with the ending of this game.  While I share some of the misgivings about the ending, I still enjoyed the ride that was Mass Effect 3.Starting out I immediately noticed how much more urgent the game felt - which gave it a bit of a rushed feeling.  I felt this was appropriate considering the situation with the Reapers.  But even in the rush, the game still had time to tell it's story, which is the main reason I play the Mass Effect games.  I felt there was plenty of story to tell in this installment, and it seemed very well-paced.  Some of the characters I wished would return had cameos only, and that was pretty disappointing for me.The combat, as usual, was solid, and upgrading weapons was a nice touch.Towards the end of the game, I noticed my readiness was still at 50% and was irritated about that, so went online to find out that I needed to play online to up this.  Initially I was furious - why should I have to play multiplayer to benefit my single player?  So I begrudgingly logged into some games, to find out that it is essentially just ME's version of Gears of War's "Horde Mode".  I was relieved, no mindless chattering of Halo or COD brats, just people who were focused on finishing missions to up their readiness.After upping my readiness, I decided it was time to hit the point of no return.  I ripped through the final missions, and was a little disheartened not to have a "final boss" style fight.  When I got to the ending, I was prepared for it to disappoint, but didn't fully know what to expect (I hid from spoilers).  I chose my ending and finished the game.  It was not the way I would have chose to end the series, and was pretty disappointed.  I am hoping we will maybe see some "aftermath" DLC to tie up some of the loose ends.After finishing the game, I was immediately reminded of the end of Steven King's Dark Tower series and I believe King said that "It's the journey, not the destination".  Even though the ending was a little heartbreaking, the journey was one heck of a ride.  I have no regrets about investing so many hours into this series.
(Spoiler)The series was great, dynamic, and epic, but Bioware ended it on a horrible note, making all the dynamic decisions of your play-throughs boil down to an inevitable suicide with your choice of 3 flavors. If you had a love interest, you will never see him/her again, nor find any closure to the relationship. It's basically a 'Kobayashi Maru' for Shepard.ME fans have been trolled by one of the best game publishers in existence, and it saddens me to an extent. To me, it is a deal-breaker, as the conclusion was the main selling point of this title.Edit 7/2/12:Upgrade to 3-stars. New ending DLC addressed the endings much to my satisfaction. While still short of perfect, the game is now a much better package.
after mass 2 this game had all the potential in the world to be one of best games of the decade and perhaps all time. unfortunately it was a total disaster.when i was about half way through it, i thought MAYBE there will be some hardcore mass 1 fans that thought the series took a fall after mass 1, and they may like this. i figured if you thought mass 2 was the pinnacle of the series you probably will not be too impressed. but after i finished it, i couldnt in good conscience recommend this game to any mass effect fan especially the the ones who played the first 2 alot. to me this was the worse ending ive ever seen in my gamer history which goes back to the n64 days. mass 2 is one of my top three ALL TIME favorite games and the ending was so bad, that i will not even be able to play mass 2 for atleast a year cause this game and its ending kinda ruined the series for me.beyond the ending it has many other issues:maybe some spoilers!characters- all your cool ass squad mates from mass 2 are gone except for tali who still doesnt arrive till later in the game like in 2. you cant recruit any of them, no jack,grunt,legion,zaheed, none. you can get all of them to make an appearance(except kelly i think), although some of the side missions there associated w/ are time sensitive, so you can miss out. some make longer appearances than others but who cares i want all them on my crew to choose from, idk if theres 20 squad mates. stop wasting money on mutilplayer and do your job and make a really awesome single player rpg. if i want to play mutiplayer ill play Gears , the same way i dont expect a rpg from GOW, i dont want nor expect a mutiplayer from mass effect. the story, half of the charters have for not coming w/ you is even more stupid. and who replaces all those cool characters- james vega!!- who reminds me of the typical juicehead u see at a local pizzeria or car wash working just to get more steroids. then liara whos alright, i mean i usually hook up w/ her. but i find her more interesting by association(shadow broker, her mother) more that by personality. garrus is another one whos alright but i dont find him all that interesting on missons or to talk to. and last a new character who is pretty cool but i think its added just to shut legion fans up and not get mass amounts of angry emails. ash is around for 1 mission and then i think she will come back to your squad if u slept w/ her.combat- its like they tried to go gears of war but failed badly. the combat system is clunky and has no fluidity. and im not saying that mass 2 had the greatest combat out there but it worked and worked well for mass and would of worked better than the half finished system that they put in 3. the weapon and upgrade system is like a combo of 1&2 but they took the good parts out of both and left them out, and your left w/ a crappier system than both the previous games. grenades replace your heavy weapon in this one, ahh no! give me back my arc projector thanks.SPOILER ALERT!storyline- well it has more holes than a block of swiss cheese. and i dont know if some of this is glitches or just sheer poor game design, but some of the major decisions get contradicted throughout the game like at 1 point they have the whole baby human reaper i killed in 2 and they are running the their base off its heart. yet i destroyed the collector base w/ the baby reaper inside wtf! bioware was going for tears and shock in 3 but it had all the tears and shock of a cheap "d" rated horror film. the story drags more than few times throughout the game. some parts are predictable but thats kinda expected at least a little w/ a final of a trilogy.  there is a few "mass effect" type moments but there just to few to make up for the train wreck that is mass effect 3. and if the ending doesnt make the top 5 worse endings of this decade ill be shocked, should be #1.graphics- a slight upgrade over 2, but quite satisfactory. i mean, are they as nice as some other games from the past year, no.. but there fine.overall i wish i never played this to begin with, the game without the ending was a half ass effort and not worth my time. but that ending i wish i NEVER saw, i would rather bioware come out and say there were leaving the series at mass 2 because they couldnt come up with a game that would meet the high mass effect standards. instead they lowered that standard to the lowest common denominator with this game.spoiler alertUpdate: one thing i wanted to add was that i see a lot of people saying your decisions in mass 1&2 mean nothing at the end of mass 3, and while thats true. and i fully understand that the end of mass 3 kind of overshadows many of the games other faults. the thing is, 90% of the decisions you made in the first 2 mean nothing in the ENTIRE 3rd game. saving wrex and kirrahe from mass 1 doesn't matter, their back in 3 whether they died or not. destroyed the collector base? well its back. destroyed or saved malin's cure...same outcome. saved or killed arachne queen...shes back either way. doesnt matter who u romanced, sometimes it even picks a different girl than the one u picked. and me and my friend sold our copies of mass 3 already, i can only imagine what else we would of seen had we imported all of the different saves we had ready from mass 1&2.and even after further thought and discussion on this game i still stick with my 1 star review, bad and boring conversations, horrible combat and battles, mostly bad storyline, lack of interesting charters, very little choice and exploratory value, and the ending...well you already know. so whats really left after that...nothing, its just a shell of the 2 titans that came before it.
Highly recommend this game for RPG lovers and sci-fi fans. While the ending may be divisive, no other gaming franchise allows for you to have so much control over how the games progresses between and within each game. Very rewarding!
The dialogue for this game seems right out of an armed forces recruiting video.  It's all about the war and the side effects of the war and cheesy romance options that make me cringe, and focuses very little about the sci-fi aspects that I was hoping for aside from some techno babble and scenery.The plot is basically just a direct extension to Mass Effect 2 with no apparent creativity with adding new elements.The controls on XBox 360 is also a bit clumsy, given how it uses the A button to sprint without an option (as far as I could find) to bind it to something else.  In order to run and turn at the same time, you have to do contortionist work with your index finger to steer, look, and sprint at the same time.The gameplay is also pretty much exactly Mass Effect 2.  It feels like I already played and beat this game.I'll be selling it used on Amazon (or doing the video games trade-in thing on Amazon) before I even finish playing through it and while the price is still high.
I honestly feel like this is one of the best RPG's that I have EVER played. I have read and heard some people refer to this game as having a "Sopranos ending" lol. Well, that ending really did suck and was so atypical of the whole series. Well, the way I see it is this is a video game that people are getting way too emotional about...the whole idea is that RPG's are fair game when it comes to the endings, they can be really awesome or really lackluster. This game is like watching a really good epic sci-fi flick. Tis game will have your undevided attention from start to finish. I became a fan later on in the series after playing some of ME2. I was a bit confused at first but I fit in well with the game and I began to understand most of the story. So I played the game over a 2 week period and I just finished it this evening (35 hours). I am very pleased and I feel like I got my monies worth and I am actually playing it a second time to get the rest of the achievements...lol. Well, If I can help anyone who has not played any of the ME games or at least ME3, I must say OVERALL you will be intrigued and mostly satisfied. I know most of the reviews are rather negative/disappointing but you will only truly know if you play it for yourself...Kudos to Bioware.
I already had this third Mass Effect (ME) when I was still playing the second ME. I finished ME2, and the next day ME3 began. Immediately I can tell you that the graphics are way better. The subject is more serious (Earth burns from minute 1), and the characters, villains, their techs and mecs are more sturdy! I fi nished the ME3 in three weeks time, enjoyed every minute of it....except  the ending.Differences:- No matter what gun you choose, the general odds are the same coz the way theyre put its either: more damage but slow firing OR less damage but rapit firing...so if you're accurate ,the odds of kiling an enemy is the same.- The way the story evolves, there's little chance there will be a Mass Effect 4. Im sad here. My 6-year old son followed the storylines from day 1, and would run over to watch the movies between battles. After watching the closing movie to ME3, his face was all red, eyes swollen with tears !! Even my 11 year old brother went to tears, and he only knew the story of ME3. Im just hoping Electronic Arts find a way to keep the Mass Effect series alive and going. Im giving this review 2 stars ecasue of the ride, & how it ended.Generally saying: I loved the ME3 also. No disappointments in purchasing it. Its a wild ride Star wars meets Star Trek story, lots of fun, and a lot of choices to actually choose from based on which the whole story changes. I loved it. Wish it opened choices for a better ending...but it feels like no matter how good I play, the stage is set for tears (if youve done better, let me know please). I played it twice, with the second time, I got more allies, around 3800. Glactic readiness was still 50%, and I hope someone tells me how to improve this. Ashley also dies both times. I donno, but i hoped I could have a choice in these too. Rumor has it EA is devising a new ending at least, to change our shocked emotions into a more subtle ending. Im sure that will help.Ed.
all the 1 start reviews are idiotic, the game itself in INCREDIBLE until the last 5 minutes where **SPOILERS**you meet a magical god child and everything you did before doesn't mean a damn thing.Too bad, a little more effort would have made the game perfect.Still an amazing game, so attached to the characters, Mordin's death is epic.
as a diehard fan of mass effect I was blown away bioware did an excellent with the game mechanics gameplay was polished as should be on the begining of the series ME1 was good game but the bugs on this game was like a plague to it, seem like it was transfered from the pc version to be able to played on xbox on ME3 found couple of annoying glitches like the one on the citadel on the shooting range the was a side quest on csec where I spoke to guy and he didn't appear looked like I was talking alone these minor flaws wasn't a big deal but how bioware sttabbed us in the back like that? why !!!! jesus I feel so dissapointed that I believe they DID this on porpuse they don't have idea how many fans do they have? stabbing us on the back like that? what this ending is suppossed to mean? I am so dissapointed how could you ruin such a nice game don't tell me you ran out of scripts just right there, I strongly believe that this was done on porpuse extended cut didn't fix nothing just wait for to be 10$ used if you wanna see what was like BIOWARE WE SHOULD CALL YOU (BEAWARE) DO SOMETHING TO FIX THIS THIS EXTENDED CUT DOESN'T FIX ANYTHING!!!! YES I CRIED FOR THIS BETRAYAL!!!
Wow! I really can't believe how many people were so angered by the ending of this game.  I really don't think its fair to judge the full game just on the ending.  Yes, I do agree that things were summed up a bit too quickly but am i going to waste time and energy worrying about the ending to a freakin video game?  No. No Im not.The journey to the end of the game is what I played the game for and it largely did not disappoint.  I got to see my actions from ME2 play out and that is what I played the game for.  It answered my questions that I had throughout the entire series and that left me pretty satisfied.Some things during my play time did end up affecting my overall rating of the game, however.  There are quite a few glitches in this game.  Not so much during the actual action parts, but during conversations and cut scenes.  Characters disappearing from view mid-conversation, sometimes awkward animation hitches, etc.  I was pretty frustrated so many of those things made it into the final game.  There were a few times that the cover-system made me get caught in the geometry of the game world as well forcing me to load my last game.  This happened only twice, however, and I have not heard this complaint often.Other than those glitches and bugs, this is the best looking mass effect yet.  The battles against the reapers especially look amazing and are intense. There are also more weapons and you can now upgrade them with better accuracy, power, ammo capacity, etc.  This allows much more customization.Other than these changes, and probably a few more, there isn't a whole lot different from ME2.  This may be good or bad depending on what you liked or didn't like about ME2.  Thankfully, you won't be searching every planet for elements.  It is now used to search for resources to aid in the war effort.  Only a few planets in each galaxy contain them so you won't have to be constantly shooting off beacons left and right.  It's a lot less time consuming this time around.Again, the game is very fun to play and is very worth playing if you have followed the series.  The journey to the end was worth the price for me.  I didn't really even mind the ending.  It just wrapped things up too quickly.  I wish there would have been a lengthy ending sequence to explain how everything went down.And just a bit of advice.  If you can, play the multiplayer.  This will raise your combat readiness in the main game which, in turn, will give you the "best" ending in the game if its high enough.  You'll know what Im talking about when you start.
I've enjoyed all the ME game and this one was no exception. Do I have problems with the ending? Yep. Did they fix them with the &#34;new ending&#34;? Somewhat. But no other game has ever had such an emotional impact and I'm not going to knock off a star for the last 5 mins of a game.
This is a beautiful game and is a great ending to the trilogy. The game play is vastly improved over the last two iterations of the title. I played in my own style. So,my experience will be different from others that play differently.PROS-You get all of the armor that came with different editions of ME2. The Collector and Terminus Armors were my favorite to play with.-Its easier to get cover.-The weapons are upgradable with modifications. You can also use any type of weapon class that you want. You're not limited by your character class.-The story is very deep. I made some choices that are still bothering me. (SPOILER ALERT) I decided to exterminate the Geth. I was rooting for them in ME2 but due to my game play style I could only choose between the Geth or the Quarians. I decided organic life was more important in the fight against the Reapers.CONS-The quality control on the camera angles and some of the rendering was awful for this caliber of blockbuster video game. I know this seems like a petty thing but its so prominent and pervasive that it interrupted fluid and consistent gameplay. This cost the game a 5-Star rating from me.-The decisions that you made in the previous titles are addressed in a mostly superficial way with the exception of character deaths in ME2.MISCConcerning all of the heart burn regarding the ending of the game. I can agree to a certain extent. But if you want to be told a story where everything is tide up neatly, you can watch any of the garbage that's coming out of Hollywood. Bioware did a relatively good job of ending the trilogy while leaving things open for the next Mass Effect Series.Overall, this game is worth every single penny. I can't wait till they release a new title. Hopefully, in two years or so.
I played all three games in sequence and my review reflects that experience.You will read stellar reviews of ME1 and ME2 - those built on each other to provide a rich experience where every single decision and every conversation led to moral choices which impacted the outcome of the plot later on.  ME2 was perfects the pinnacle of that "choose your own adventure" system where the survival of your band of heros in the final mission depended on how you interacted with them.Such were the expectations for ME3.  Did we get any new squad members?  Well, not really.  James Vega is there for comedy relief but doesn't really do anything Ash/Kaidan/Garrus doesn't already do.  And like ME2, the specific requirement on each mission for a tech specialist so you can hack containers for loot isn't needed anymore, so it doesn't really matter who you bring along save the unique dialog the team members sometimes bring.  Still, the missions remain enveloping and fun just like ME2.  There are moral consequences at the end of each mission which seemingly impact the final mission, being the gathering of allied support.  The story is much more sweeping and on a galactic scale compared to the first two games, which is fine if you've played the first two, but for newbies it lacks the personal touch of gathering squad members and learning more about each one them.So, gameplay is the same.  That's a good thing.There are fewer areas to explore now.  I think only the Citadel has free roam in this game.  Part of what makes ME fun is the non-combat sections where you roam around and learn about things.  That is lacking in ME3 but did not really serve as a huge detractor for me.Which leaves us with the ending.  Everyone knows it is pretty terrible, and even if the developers pulled a fast one by "indoctrinating the audience" that is a totally lame nihilistic ending that fails to reward fans for having invested in part 1 and part 2.That said, I think folks should still play all three games.  The journey is very satisfying and when was the last time you thought about the ending to a game?  I certainly have not.  But I did remember all the crazy things that happened leading up to it and how much fun I had building the team up along the way.  And that is the inherent value in RPGs - you build up a team/character from a nothing level 1 to something you feel proud of.  Naturally ME3 would be a 5/5 if the ending reflected that investment in character, but up until the final ridiculous scene, you never felt let down.Overall, 2/5.  But the entire series is a 5/5 and is a must play.
The only thing that sucks is that you arn't given as many choices as you were in ME2 when you interact with people. And at that the choices are obvious bad guy or good guy choices. No REAL hard choices.
I loooove the single story of these games. I bought this when it launched and still play the multiplayer all the time. Also,  for all the people that are all upset about the ending they just fixed it to suit it closer to the rpg players needs.
I waited a long time before finally breaking down and buying this game.  I heard so many bad things from other gamers about it.  I just didn't want to risk it.  Having exhausted all my other favorite games, I finally got this one.  I have to say that it's one of the best games I've ever played.  It really ties up everything from the other two games.  The graphics are good, on par with or slightly better than ME2.  I really loved the missions, though, and the story of the continuation of the friendships and bonds forged from the previous games.  Yes, the ending was sad (don't think that's a spoiler at this late date) but it was how it had to end.  There could be no easy way out for Shepherd after fighting this battle for so long.  It wouldn't have felt honest if the reapers were defeated so easily and Shepherd got to walk off into the sunset.  I hate to see it end but it was a great game series.  ME, ME2 and ME3 will be keepers that I'm sure I'll play again and again just because there are so many different possibilities that pop up depending on the choices that you make.
Mass Effect 2 was better than 3.  The truth is I didn't like the ending & they didn't have all the crew on the ship.  Over allthey could have done the ending better.  Miranda was not with the crew on ship.  Didn't make sense why they did this so I think it could have been better in the long run.
The developers @ bioware said that they delayed the release of ME3 to ensure that it met everyone's expectations. Well, sorry to say it did not, and not just for the ending which was a HUGE disappointment. I will try and itemize the issues I personally had with the game.1. Some of the missions were entirely too short (particularly the side missions), and in some ways they took the easy way out. For example, you overhear someone speaking about a missing prothean artifact, so you set out to find it; anticipating a fire-fight to recover this ancient relic...WRONG...you just have to scan a planet and BINGO! you found the artifact...totally LAME!!2. Past characters that are gratuitously introduced (Thane,Miranda,Jacob,Samara,Grunt,Jack). I would have liked the opportunity to have these characters in your squad for at least one mission, but that's just me. There was no consequence to the actions from past decisions. If you romanced Miranda in ME2 ,and let's face it , who didn't? ;-) , you'd think that there would be more to the relationship in ME3 rather than (essentially) "It's good to see you".3. The Missions are disappointingly repetetive. Brief in the war room, brief on the shuttle, explore and kill baddies, defend a stronghold, kill more baddies, Choose a 'path' and the end of the shooting (renegade/paragon), Back to the Normady, debrief from Hackett...rinse and repeat.4. Scanning and Reaper Alertness: this just became annoying, hitting your scanner TWICE and then having to flee a sector and not being able to return...was very poorly implemented, and simply became irritating.SPOILERS BELOW!!!!5. The Ending: where most of the controversy lies. I too was not happy with the way Bioware chose to end the game. And when you look at the ending, some things stand out.A. The Relays were destroyed, so the Krogan, Turians, Asari, Geth, etc...are all stranded on earth and can't get home after the big fight.B. The Ending left you feeling hollow, like the scope of what had transpired was minimalized.C. It would have been nice to see more of a Final Fantasy type ending where all  the characters were shown either together or seperately rejoicing and celebrating their victory (they just saved the galaxy afterall!)All I can think of with the ending is that perhaps Bioware ended things as they did in order to set the stage for a new franchise set in the same ME world but as a completely independent entity...I don't know.All I know is that while the game was entertaining at times, It was hardly the show-stopping epic that the trailers and developers promised it would be
I felt betrayed by Bioware for the horrid ending and the high cost of the collectors edition. I paid  $110.99 for the Collectors Edition from gamestop and it was a ripoff. The items both in game and with the game box I received from the collectors edition are a joke (two books and a stupid patch?). The items I received from Mass Effect 2 CE were more useful and fun in game.To get the best war readiness rating I must play multiplayer.....screw that!The main reason I felt betrayed was the horrible ending. I understand that in war s..t happens, but when it came to the ending it was a slap in the face. All that hard work helping the races to work together only to have them either destroyed or living in the equivalent of the dark ages.  Wow what a pyrrhic victory.....only two options were given all with the very same ending yet with different cosmetic effects.  Each main major character that died in helping Sheridan was heart wrenching, but hey that is war. When Anderson died (spoiler alert) it was sad but he completed the mission, hence he died fulfilled. The choices given were not much of a choice either way you are dead and everyone is dead or suffers, but hey the reapers are gone whoopee.More work should have been put into the so called ending. For example another ending could be that mass relays were destroyed along with the Reapers, but the races rebuild them which takes' time. During that time the races that are scattered on each other's planet and learn the hard way to work together while the mass relays are being rebuilt. Yes I know this looks lame, but better than the WTF ending from bioware. Great let down guys.Damn the Chief from the last Halo game made it to a cryogenic pod....
Well, just to add my voice to the throngs of disappointed fans...The game is great right up till the end ruins it.  New endings were released as a free DLC or update and these fix some of the problems but not enough and so the damage is done.  I've lost a great deal of interest in the Mass Effect series as a result.The gameplay was fun.MP is actually great.The story was good until the poor ending.Those playing this for the first time with the new endings may like it more.
Definitely a game you have to play to get better at.  Worth the time.  My favorite is the Destroyer with particle rifle amp'd up with incendiary rounds.
Mass effect 3 is the final story arc for commander shepherd. it blends the best of both games together such as having a more worldwide story like the first game along with the many powers. it has the combat from the second game and also the mineral scanner. the game sounds amazing until you realize it has 3 big flaws. the number 1 flaw is the endings. it leaves you with more questions where this is suppose to be final and it feels rushed.the second big issue is your journal. the journal is a mess and though it shows your main mission clearly enough it also mixes your side quest with them. the problem with it is that the journal doesn't tell you when you have the right items for a side quest or the fact that some of these are timed. this can be frustrating when you are trying to get the best ending. the final flaw is that your heavy weapons from mass effect 2 are gone for the most part. you will occasionally pick up a heavy weapon only for it to have 1 or 2 shots unlike mass effect 2 where you could pick a heavy weapon whenever you wanted. Overall the game was worth the 60 dollars i paid and is well worth it just forget about the ending....
I'm not here to rip on ME3 just for the sake of doing so or because its what's cool to do on the internet like so many others.Basically ME3 is the worst of the series in every way possible compared to the other 2 games because it doesn't build or improve anything. It simply just tries to hurriedly finish the series for the sake of a cash in on the title.1- There is no sense of exploration. The game as efficiently as possible holds your hand every step the way and has you actually being on the ground doing things the least amount possible. Side missions are carried out by quickly scanning a planet ala ME2 and then firing a probe. That's it. You don't explore, you don't get to check out uncharted worlds simply for the sake of curiosity or anything. Scan, shoot probe, side mission done all without even leaving the galaxy map. This tactic accounts for the majority of side missions. ME1 you could explore the galaxy drive around in that horribly handling buggy and had a sense of discovering things, ME2 you could land on planets and explore doing side missions with some not even firing a single shot like the crashed cruiser balanced on the mountain peak but all of those things are gone in 3. The game just holds your hand and ushers you from mission to mission.2- You don't get to actually chose anything, everything is pre determined for you. Even if you chose the renegade or paragon path you get the exact same result and no one treats you differently and you get no alternative paths depending on your karma scale which makes it all incredibly pointless and just window dressing for the fact the story is entirely linear and so is your character.3- The characters are all the same ones, only less compelling. There are a couple new characters but they are highly disposable and not even worth messing with. James for instance is basically just a guy who talks 90% of the time like a generic white guy, 10% of the time he throws out some Mexican phrases like saying "loco" a lot in his generic white guy trying to impersonate a Mexican guy and he looks like he was taken from the show jersey shore. When a old character returns you can see it coming a mile away. For instance you go into a area where the mission briefing talks about geth then you can see 45 minutes before which old character is going to come back. All the characters themselves seem hollow and rushed, they lack the personality that made them endearing in the other games and most are there only long enough to be overly obvious in a very specific mission or they simply show up for 3 minutes of camera time practically winking at the player with a nod and then are gone.4- The story compared to the others sucks. The other games had side stories, character stories, side missions with their own short stories and so on. ME3 on the other is basically this "Everything is going to be destroyed". That's pretty much it because no matter where you go or what you do it's always about the war specifically and nothing else. I also got sick of hearing phrases like "we're here to save lives", "we're doing this to save lives", "this weapon will save lives", "we need to stick together to save lives", "billions of lives are on the line and were here to save them", etc and after about 8 hours I was sick of hearing about the war and saving lives.5- The game play was basically just one big shooting gallery and hiding behind chest high walls. Every single fight is basically you hiding behind chest high walls to peak out and fire a few rounds only to hide back behind said wall. It was incredibly boring and has been done to death in dozens of other games. The combat was mindless and mediocre. It felt like they put absolutely no effort into the combat at all and rushed you through it in order to get to the next scene of hearing Sheppard say "saving lives".6- The ending was atrocious. This is a series that prides itself on story, characters and dialogue. We all spent over 100 bucks playing all 3 games and spent over 100 hours playing all 3 games but bioware seemed to say "This is the end of the trilogy so who cares about the ending". The ending is the most important part of any story of any kind because it's the very last thing you leave the person with and it's supposed to be a reward, the climax to everything leading up till then, basically the ending is the most important part of any story. But the ending of ME3 was over in just a minute or so despite the dozens of hours of dialogue, cut scenes and story in the rest of the series they got lazy at the end. It gives no satisfaction at all. I can honestly say it is the laziest segment of the series. I did like though they had the balls to do what they did with Sheppard, but the ending still sucks and doesn't make you glad to have finished the series.All in all if you played the other 2 games then you'll obviously want to play this, but I wouldn't bother with it until it hits 20 bucks.And stay away from the collector's edition, I was stupid enough to buy it and I felt like I wasted my money.
They've provided an expanded ending as free DLC, but aside from the controversial conclusion I felt that ME3 is fun and continues the same style of gameplay as ME1 and ME2. ME1 required an excessive amount of micromanagement in almost every aspect. Some people enjoy that kind of detail, I don't find it very fun in the long run but ME1 had a decent soundtrack. ME2 simplified much of the processes, and many people complained. ME3 took that simplification a bit further with limited areas of exploration in the Citadel, and many mini-quests that require using different computer terminals (which weren't explained very well). Anything and everything that is important shows up on your HUD as you walk close to it, so it eliminates the pointless clicking/searching in many other RPG-action games like Oblivion.The third-person shooting interface is about the same as ME2. After about 2-3 years between playing ME2 and ME3, it took me about 30 minutes to get accustomed to ME3. The Kinect Sensor worked perfectly for me, even with my Jersey accent. I found myself using &#34;Grenade&#34; quite often because I mapped the two RB and LB buttons for biotic powers, I also use voice commands for switching weapons from time to time.The FemShep voice acting is still the best, and I imported my character from ME2 (Xbox 360). Unfortunately, I wasn't able to import my ME1 character into ME2 because I bought ME1 for the PC about 5 years ago.The weapons bench and armor locker are still there, and I always find enjoyment in tweaking the weapons loadouts and their individual mods (2 slots per weapon type). Carrying too many weapons slows down Shepard's power recharging, but I find the Sniper RIfle and Shotgun to be cumbersome and slow with limited capacity anyhow. I find the Assault Rifle and Sub-Machinegun to be my &#34;Go To&#34; weapons for the Soldier and Sentinel (the soldier that has biotic powers and can use all weapons).Overall: 5/5 stars, great voice acting, riveting story line especially if you've played the first 2 games, great sound effects, visuals are top-notch, and I just loved the costumes/weapons/tech/gear.
got this game day it came out an the only thing i didn't like was that the multiplayer could change the way the single player ended if the galatic readiness wasn't high.alot of ppl didn't like the ending i thought it was so so but they changed that with a free dlc.overall the mass effect series is one of the best single player games i ever played if you have not played it u should.
If you played ME 2, then beware ME 3 is similar in graphics but fluffed up a bit.  The story sucks when you consider the decisions I made while in ME 2...I sided with the Elusive Man...I concurred with his philosophy and I chose to preserve the Collector base...but we begin the game as a defector to the Alliance?  What?!  That already turned me off to start.  I don't like battling what I sided with...ME 2 made it end like I could make the monumental choice to be Cerberus or Alliance brat.  Misalignment in this department.  I invested the time and thought...why double back on me, yo?The synthetic plot felt hurried and rushed, if not forced at times.  I destroyed the Geth with glee while on Rannoch.  Wrex doesn't fight with me as a companion?  Really?  I waited through the second game and this one to reunite with my old buddy and Garrus to shoot the same old dirt up again like we did Saren...but no...he had "responsibilities"...please he is Korgan.The end of the story is too short, abrupt, unfulfilling, despite the later add-on on xbox live.  You can read endlessly how MANY gamers detested the ending, nuff said.What I like was Garrus...he makes a fine sniper and companion...I love the dialog choices...I see things his way a lot.  The Liara became a Stephen Hawking very quick in my opinion...I know she was a scientist but please to this degree.  She is a wet rag in my opinion.  I wanted Lawson on my ship again or at least the choice to recruit her and the ME 1 & 2 & others ...that would be awesome: limited space on your ship so pick your staff from the two previous game (some might be dead so omitted), or entirely new characters in ME 3!  The Jacob plot was written and executed well...whoever did it (writers and graphic artists and the manager) deserved their pay on that one.  Joker was actually funny on ME 3...I was waiting to see "really" why he was called Joker.Cheers
Hey I just wanted to let EA and Bioware know that I will not play this game.  After hearing all the crappy reviews and disappointment of the ending, you will not get my money.  Why play a game if there aren't multiple endings and everything you do is for nothing?  It's like training 4 hard long years for the Olympics, and then deciding you're not gonna even go to the Olympics...what the heck were you people thinking?  You may be satisfied with what project you put on the table, but many fans are NOT happy.  You should give the power of the players to decide the fate of the universe.  If someone wants to see a crappy ending, they will work towards that crappy ending.  If a players want to work towards a better ending, they will work towards that.  You better make a Mass Effect 4 where time travel is possble and fix this....
How bad does an ending have to be in order to ruin an entire series? Yeah, its that bad. Let me clarify a few things free of spoilers. First, I'll actually review the game rather than tell you ho bad the ending is and leave. Don't worry, I have more to say than, "it was good up until..."*****PROS*****There is still plenty of dialogue and character development. All the characters are interesting and usually say things you'll want to listen to. While ME3 tries to appeal to a mainstream audience with MP and the combat, this remains one of those games that you shut the door and pay attention to the deep story and characters. The characters can be found all over the ship for dialogue choices. You don't have to always go to their specific location in order to speak with them. They can also be found on the Citadel whenever you dock so sometimes you'll be caught in situations rather than dialog sequences. Some characters will make you think more to yourself than the series ever has before. This really is some of the best writing to date, no matter how heart-breakingly awful the series ended.Deaths/outcomes are generally done very well. Depending on your choices and/or renegade/paragon score, some past characters can live or die. Most of mine died, but they were all masterfully killed off and one even brought me to tears. THAT'S SAYING SOMETHING.The DLC character is a wonderful addition to the series. I can't complain about having to buy him because he came with my collector's edition, but I cannot imagine not having him in the game. He's no Mordin or Thane, but he reveals the truth about the revered Protheans as well as some VERY surprising things about the council races that I'm sure you would not have otherwise known without the DLC. In other words the DLC is ESSENTIAL. As much as I like Zaeed and Kasumi, this DLC trumps them both.*****CONS*****The combat/cover system doesn't come close to the likes of Uncharted. The cover system will drive you crazy and you'll definitely roll when you wanted to snap to cover. A play through of this on insanity is going to result in a broken controller for sure. Shooting gets quite repetitive (I like shooters), and it make you wish some real space age blasters, beams, or lasers would be part of your arsenal rather than normal guns in futuristic clothing.There is only ONE HUB WORLD. ME2 had Illium, the Citadel, Tuchanka, and Omega. You even had the Shadow Broker ship. Besides the Normandy, you are limited to only the Citadel to visit. THAT SUCKS.You must procure heavy weapons on site. Gone are the days where you can simply equip the Cain, Arc Projector, Flamehrower, etc. You have to find them on the ground within a level in order to use them.In Mass Effect 3 everyone eagerly anticipated how Earth would be. It was hyped up in the trailers and I even remember interviews saying you could go to Japan, somewhere in the US, and Vancouver. FORGET ALL THAT. You only go to London. A war-torn destroyed London that is only recognizable as a human settlement because there are actual streets with road paint rather than futuristic platforms or dirt. To say that Earth was underwhelming is an understatement. It downright sucked. The fights, the location, the atmosphere; everything about it was poorly executed and made for a terrible "final showdown."*****THE AWFUL (spoiler-free)*****As mentioned the ending completely ruined the entire series for me. I literally just switched my desktop background from Commander Shepard back to Big Boss (Kojima can get an ending right). Not only is it bad because it failed to satisfy me and bring closure to any of the characters we all know and love, but it rendered anything I did in the past games worthless. Had a romance with someone not on the ship? Who cares. Stopped Garrus from killing Sidonis? Who cares. Sidonis is not even in the game. Saved the Rachni queen? It was just a number on your galactic readiness.I was looking forward to closing the book on my favorite franchise in gaming history....just like you were. To find out that my choices meant nothing in a series that boasts its element of choice above anything else is heartbreaking. Half a decade of the best game I've ever played ruined by the last 15 mins? They had to stumble from perfection somewhere, but they fumbled at the one yard line in the Super Bowl.Metal Gear Solid takes back its title as the best story driven franchise. Bioware, you failed BIG TIME.*****UPDATE*****Two words: INDOCTRINATION THEORYCasey Hudson was quoted as saying he wanted and ending that we all would talk about. I am still conflicted whether the ending was lazy and a massive disappointment, or if the entire final game in the trilogy was riddled with subtleties missed by all of us who hated HATED HATED the ending. Do yourself a favor and watch the indoctrination video. It contains truly COMPELLING evidence that this is not the end......I have changed my score for the time being because of the extremely convincing arguments throughout the vid.*****UPDATE*****After playing through again on insanity, this game is MUCH MUCH easier than Mass Effect 2's insanity. It has also been announced a few weeks ago that we'll be getting a "true" ending this summer as DLC. I'm hoping its worthwhile but I'm not holding my breath. I have a few other complaints after the game after being somewhat of an expert on it now (I got my galactic readiness to 100% and my assets to over 7000).It seems like Bioware refused to think outside of the box. Before infiltrating the geth ship you are walking on a blown up ship with magnetic shoes. You are basically out in open space and its AWESOME. These types of moments are what I was hoping for throughout the game. I wanted Bioware to take advantage of the fact that we're in space. Throw in some zero gravity sections, or maybe even be joker for a mission piloting the Normandy. The possibilities are endless and while I still love the game, I would have like to do more than shooting.And speaking of the shooting, there is too much of an emphasis on it. I know people who get through the whole game without using their powers. In ME2, it wasn't quite a full out shooter and choosing the right squadmates made a huge difference in your play style (at least on the harder difficulties). This time, it reallydoesn't matter who you choose (except for Tali with the geth missions; it matters then). You can usually just mow everyone down with bullets ignoring powers.With everything said, I don't think its as good as ME2. The dialogue and characterization are excellent as always, but it ends on a VERY low note.***Extended Cut Update***Prior to downloading the extended cut I tried my best to beat the game and load the ending in time for Tuesday the 26th and noticed something. The shooting is extremely dull and repetitive. ME3 is a mediocre shooter plain and simple. Ending aside, I must say that the new gameplay mechanics and the extreme emphasis on shooting bores me. This resulted in me looking up the extended cut on youtube rather than shoot my way through ME3. Maybe I should change classes or something. Anyways, let's get this over with.The indoctrination theory was a clever attempt at rationalizing the ending and is now proved invalid. The endings are not changed or expanded on as much as they are EXPLAINED. We now have more closure and can see what Bioware was trying to get across. Across the internet you may find articles saying that the ending should not be tampered with as it goes against the studio's artisic vision, blah, blah, blah. Well, IT WASN'T. IT'S WHAT IT SHOULD HAVE BEEN IN THE FIRST PLACE. The ending is now complete rather than extended.Do I think the indoctrination theory is better that what Bioware tacked on to the end of the trilogy? Yes, far better in fact. Is Mass Effect 3 the stinker of the trilogy that could have used a couple more years in development? Definitely. The story, character interactions and everything were excellent, but the past crew were tacked on in missions (Jacob, Jack, Samara) and I still don't feel like my war assets affect anything at all. As for the Rachni, they may as well have never been in the series. Their buildup resulted in absolutely nothing. As you are reading this you probably can see that I think the series deserved a better sendoff. Where were the space battles, QTE's, interactions/conversations with the Reapers, Sidonis (Garrus' foe), and choices from the past (such as if I sided with the Illusive Man)? I can't think of a single way that ME3 built upon or improved on ME2.Regarding the extended cut Bioware did a wonderful job patching up the misunderstood, vague ending. They listened to the fans and did something about it for free. I will always appreciate that and feel comfort in the fact that this is not the end for Mass Effect.If Bioware decided to build on ME3's indoctrination theory I could see another game with Shepard fighting the Reapers under impossible odds and finding a way to win with EVERYONE he had in his crew. Except Thane and Legion of course. Abandoned worlds devoid of life and Shepard and crew must fight their way through guerilla style as to avoid being caught. All characters evolve further and are pushed to their mental limits because they are the last in the universe. Then the might and wisdom of the Rachni come to the rescue because of my choice back in 2008 woo-hoo! 100% wishful thinking at this point but whatever, ME3 was OK.
*SPOILERS ALERT*This game is an immersive experience throughout. The only sensible explanation that has been brought up is that the ending scene is Shepard's viewpoint of being indoctrinated by the reapers, which does tie in the entire storyline brilliantly. But it just ends there, without explaining what happens to Shepard, the crew, the relationships, the universe, etc..even the mass relays are gone. What an uncertain and depressing end to a spectacular series. The countless hours spent on all three games seemed to be a waste. We expected all our previous paths to mean something, but all we're left with is:1) This one bleak ending (or three)2) Future DLC with additional endings
And I'm giving it one.  I delayed purchase of the game after all these horrible reviews, picking it up later on sale.  Where I paid full price for the first two.I get it--the ending doesn't satisfy everyone.  There are plot holes, the "deus ex machina" thing at the end, the fact that the outcome is always the same.  I might have expected a little more from Bioware given the execution up to this point.But ONE STAR? The sheer number of one star reviews, plus the blind down voting of positive reviews (and corresponding blind up voting of negative reviews) makes it obvious this is more of a campaign than honest individual reviews--tied to social media campaigns to "take back mass effect 3."I generally get what Mass Effect is about, but definitely wouldn't consider myself a Mass Effect expert, so I didn't get so worked about problems with the ending.  Yeah, it was kind of stupid.  And kind of short.  And left GAPING plot holes.Besides that, though, this is the best Mass Effect yet, and perhaps the best RPG on the 360 to date.  The game-play rivals that of Gears of War--and that's saying a lot about the quality.  Gears is the benchmark for 3rd person shooters, and I couldn't help but be impressed at how close ME3 is to that.  The graphics are better.  The cinematics are better.  The environment is better.  The maps/menus/RPG stuff is better.  EVERYTHING is as good or better than it ever has been in ME.If the ending keeps you from enjoying a finely crafted game for 20+ hours, then by all means:  DON'T BUY THIS GAME.Or if you really really really hate EA.  Which I do.  But I guess I like Battlefield and Mass Effect more than I hate EA.  The Prothean DLC is unacceptable.
Ah, the trilogy.  A juggernaut of money making potential, a cesspool of rabid fan disappointment and, above all else, absolute proof that you will never, ever please everyone.As of the writing of this, Mass Effect 3 has a user rating of less than 3 stars, which blows my little mind.  This'll be a long review (more of a reaction than a review, really) because there's so much to talk about: hate and anger and hate and indoctrination theories and more hate and what have you.  So feel free to skip around, but know this from right now:  Mass Effect 3 is a brilliant game.  Strong, fun, emotional: it builds on the gameplay and story elements of the previous two, makes a host of improvements, and adds massive replay value to each game in the series.  I can't imagine not recommending it to anyone who's enjoyed the previous games.Even if it does have a stupid ending.So there.====The Gameplay; "Ducking and Rolling and Omni-Blades - Oh My!"====It feels sort of odd to jump into a gameplay discussion like it ain't no thing... but it really ain't no big thing (or thang, whatever).  If you've played the second Mass Effect (and seriously, who's played the third and only the third in this series?  That would be weird) then you're already familiar with how things are going to go down.  Its 3rd person, over the shoulder, and cover based gun combat, with some light melee sprinkled in.  You've got a series of skills to use, mostly science magic, to help you and your squad of two others survive waves of ugly, ugly space monsters.  It's an engrossing experience, smoothed out a touch from the its predecessor, but is still a little rough around the edges.  Shepard doesn't always stick to cover reliably, your squadmates are forever in your way - it's not as polished a shooter as, say, Gears of War, but it's still a really satisfying, compelling, rich enough experience.  There have been some specific improvements since the last chapter - Shepard can roll and dodge and has a much more aggressive melee attack.  Grenades are back (kaboom!) and squadmates are much more responsive to your orders.  Again, it's not mind blowing, but it's good; it's compelling and fun and doesn't get dull.We've got some new enemies to face and then shoot in the face - most of which can best be described as 'space monsters'.  This is probably my first point of disapproval, but also the lightest, so who cares.  BUT, I was a little disappointed with this: most of Mass Effect deals with pretty clear and mostly believable enemies (mercenaries, pirates, robots, robots, robots).  Anything that comes across as monstrous (like the Rachni, or the Reapers themselves) usually comes equipped with some kind of in depth exploration to explain what they are and where they come from.  But all of a sudden we have the of 'Reaper Forces', a slew of foot-soldier type monsters that the Reapers created to... I don't know, kill people better than the giant space lasers they have?  Maybe harvest bodies and such?  I guess that's probably it, though you never see any of that in action.  The monster designs are neat, and artfully pull elements from the species that the Reapers have been collecting... but it also starts to push things further from the science fiction realm and deeper into the fantasy realm.  The Reaper forces have odd shapes, glowing eyes, and are starting to look more and more like generic monsters or orcs or something.  ...In fact, they're almost EXACTLY like the darkspawn from Dragon Age: Origins.  They're even created in a similar fashion.  It's one of those little additions that start to stretch and blur the borders of the mass effect universe.  It works well enough and maybe it's just a personal preference, but still...Oh, also there are some ninjas.  With swords and everything.  I have this theory that if you're introducing ninjas into a world where they haven't already been established, then you're officially running out of ideas.  I guess I'll make this exhibit 'A' for that theory.  (Send me a message if you want to discuss the absurdity and absolute impracticality of bringing a sword to a gun fight)But that's it, really, as far as gameplay goes.  New skills, new enemies, same flavored sauce on top.  There are no vehicle type levels, no big risks taken with new gameplay mechanics and only a couple of truly cinematic-type fights; it's moslty just straight up, Mass Effect awesomeness.  It's tried and true and wholly enjoyable, but doesn't break new ground or even try to; they took what worked and ran with it.====The Design:  "A New, Same, New Normandy"This is probably the aspect of the third installment that I'm happiest about.  You could say delighted, titillated, ecstatic even.  The overall artistic design of the game has improved, grown richer, deeper, and so, so much prettier WITHOUT losing its integrity.  With the exception of the space monsters and occasional ninja (and those are only light divergences) it still FEELS like Mass Effect.  It sounds like nothing, but maintaining the tone of something, especially a video game, with all its variables, is really difficult and being able to do so is the hallmark of real a talent.The locations, especially the cityscapes, are gorgeously detailed and the visuals seem to go on for miles.  Reapers as tall as scycrapers do their death marches in the distance as you fight your way through incredibly detailed piles of rubble, hiding amongst disused vehicles and slabs of concrete.  Long gone are the generic levels of the first game, long gone are the small and blocky levels from the second.  You can see hints of those in the bones, in the basic structure, but it's such a mind bending improvement that I think I'm starting to figure out where most of the time and money went.Ditto, doubly so even, for the sound design.  Mass Effect has always had a quirky, ethereal quality the soundtrack.  The core has been retained but the body has been given a whole new life.  It's a truly lovely score that supports the action onscreen and makes for some seriously cinematic moments.  Everything, from the light & sad instrumentals that get punctuated by the horrific `roar' of the Reapers, down to the nuts and bolts of gunfire and ambient voices - everything is so artfully and splendidly done.  If Mass Effect 3 wins only one award ever, I really, really hope it's for sound design or mixing.Look at me, gushing away.====Exploring the Universe : "Help, Help, I've Run Out of Fuel Again!"====Oh, so we're still flying a ship around on this little map, are we?  Huh.  Am I the only person who misses the point n' click map from Mass Effect 1?  ...just me, huh?  Damn.I don't have a lot of complaints about this game, but I'll throw this one out there; exploring the galaxy map never congealed into anything more than 'servicable' over the three games.  They've kept the basics from ME2 - piloting a little version of the Normandy around a map and rationing fuel.  The 'Scanning for Resources' mini game is gone, as are the four resources from ME2, and it's been replaced by using broad scans (almost like a submarine's 'ping') to look for fuel and 'War Assets' - weapons, people, ships and such that can be used to fight the Reapers... or, you know, raise your 'Galactic Readindess' score, as you never see or use any of the assets you find.I suppose the big changes are that you no longer discover side missions by exploring worlds (most are orders from Hackett or come through your email... in game email, not real-world email, that would be creepy) and that the Reapers are actively hunting you in most star clusters (more and more of them, as the game progresses).  Do too many 'pings' and a group of Reaper ships swoop onto the map to pull the Normandy apart.  It adds a level of tension to the map navigating... but not really in a fun way.  More of an "I'm just trying to EXPLORE here!  Argh!" sort of way.  It's not bad, but it's really indicative of how they never quite figured out what to do with the necessary Galaxy Map navigation; they wanted to make it a more interactive experience, a more... exciting one, I guess.  And they did but... why?Fuel, also, is a much tighter resource, as the Normandy has a diminished capacity and the Reapers have leveled most of the fuel depots you relied on in ME2.  Again, it adds a layer of tension and planning, but not in any way I'd call fun.I guess it's also worth mentioning that there are very few 'new' systems to explore.  If you've played the first two, then you've more than likely been to every system you'll see in ME3 and read most of the planet descriptions already.  It is the same galaxy, after all.  I suppose this is why they cut back on exploring and gave us a way to quickly scan each system; I suppose that makes more sense than forcing the player to slowly dig through areas of the galaxy they've already been too, that is.====The Story; "Hey, Shepard, can you fix our deep seeded social issues real quick?  Thanks!"====(LIGHT SPOILERS AHOY!)Now we're talking - this is what we show up to Mass Effect for!  Deep, rich, variable plots and character development!  ...wow, it's pretty amazing these things are as popular as they are, isn't it?I'm happy to say that the story is a definite Mass Effect story.  An exciting opening - a dramatic turn around - a thrilling final sequence.  High points, low points, exciting reveals.  Loose-ends tied up, plot threads resolved, character arcs completed.  Everything you'd hope for and expected to see is in there...Relax, I'm not talking about the ending yet.  So calm down.  I'll get to it in a minute and you can be plenty mad at me then.  Just hold on.The bulk of the story involves Shepard circling the galaxy, trying to convince everyone that, yes, the Reapers are something that we should be working together to stop.  It sounds a little forced because... well, it is.  But it feels balanced in the end - you're asking species with deep, deep hatred for one another to open up all their secrets, get super-duper vulnerable to each other.  So that fact that the Krogans or the Turians want favors or promises of favors before laying it all on the line kind of makes sense... well, enough sense to justify the game anyway.  If nothing else, it's a wonderful excuse to tie up plot threads we've been dying to tie up while still keeping focus on the Reaper threat and, in the end, is far more effective than not.The Illusive Man devolves a little into something of a mustache twirling villain - but for reasons that make sense, at least.  And the good guys are putting all their efforts into a plot-resolving 'happy ending bomb' that makes all the bad guys go away at once... which is usually something I hate (thanks for that,Gears of War 3.  sigh).  But, again, it's handled with a little Mass Effect logic and some class, so it's not all that bad.  They're all tired plot elements, is what I'm saying, but I hesitate to say they're 'lazy'.  Nothing about this game feels lazy to me...Rushed, though, I'd say that indeed.  Sometimes really, really rushed.  "Hey, Shepard, you're back for retirement or whatever, let's go talk to some of these folks who are in charge of something I guess - oh, look out, Repears!  Everyone's dying, probably!  Quick, go unite the galaxy, we'll wait here!  Oh, that's James, he's new."  I'm sure this is (at least partly)  the result of real world pressure to get the game out on time, and also partly because the dev team had a TON of ground to cover, storywise... but it's still a little disappointing.  Character introductions are rushed as are a few big story elements (wait... Thessia's gone?  just... already?  How?  What does that even mean?)  Lots and lots of things happen in this story (even before DLC) and, as a result, some of what should probably be the most emotionally compelling parts -all the stuff that happens on Earth- actually end up feeling the most hastily done.  I had a MUCH bigger emotional reaction the Krogan missions and to the Quarian/Geth struggles than I did with anything that happened on Earth because the writers really took their time with those sequences - they cover multiple planets in multiple systems, introduce new characters and bring old ones back into the fold.  They have action, heartbreaking emotion, gut-wrenching decisions to be made (that you feel the effects of) and some incredible cinematic moments.  I dare say, they may be the best sequences in the Mass Effect trilogy... and they happen in the middle of the story.  At the beginning and end of the 2nd act, I believe.  It's hard to believe, but  they stuck the best stuff in the middle, and left the beginning and the end feeling truncated, rushed, perhaps even... weirdHold on, I'm not there yet.  Soon, my friends, soon.===The Characters: "Huh... where is everybody?"===(S'MORE SPOILERS, Y'ALL)This is more of an observation than anything else, but the roster of characters feels small...  Which isn't true, really, it's about the size of what we had in ME1.  Bigger, even, with some DLC and, you know, provided certain people survived ME2.ME2 had a massive cast because the game was ABOUT that cast, learning about the characters and gaining their loyalty.  ME3 is much more about the plot and the bigger story happening but...  well, most of these folks we know arleady.  Liara, Kaiden/Ashley, Tali & Garrus (provided they're alive).  Even Edi we sort of already know, though not in this new, nude, weirdly proportioned form.  James is new but... who cares?  The only real interesting addition, the only one we have anything to learn about is Javik, the Prothean... available only in the day one DLC.  Which upset no one at all and only made people very, very happy, I'm sure.So, yeah, it's a little bit of a backwards slide, especially coming off the previous installments, when learning about your weirdo crew was a third of the game or more.  It is fun to see the old familiar faces on the Normandy, to celebrate the past or mourn the dead (both of which happen, as the events of the previous games are felt and weigh heavy on this one).  But it would have been good to through one or two new, interesting (sorry James) faces into the mix.  Javik certainly could have been fleshed out into a full, in game character... probably SHOULD have been, in retrospect.It's a small point to make and is ultimately overshadowed by the plot, but it was worth mentioning.====On the Ending... thanks for being so patient====Awwwwwwwww yeah, here it is!Far and away, without a doubt, the most hotly debated and fiercely hated part of the game is the last twenty minutes (or the last two hours, depending on who you talk to).  Never before outside of like, actual politics, have I seen such harsh polarization and so many angry, angry words thrown about.  I can only imagine the BioWare offices the day after release, when the reactions started flooding in.  They must have known there would be some grumbling, but could they possibly have predicted such a violent storm?With that said, I have to admit... I didn't hate the ending so much.  I didn't like it, I don't think it's the best way they could have gone, as way confused as to WHY they did, but I didn't hate it.Yes, it is weird.  Yes, it's a little out of place.  Like the beginning of the game, it feels hasty; rushed even.  And, yes, the last few hours are ultimately disappointing.  But it certainly didn't make me angry.Okay, here's my take on the last few sequences...(HEAVY SPOILERS, OF COURSE...)After a kick-ass assault on The Illusive Man (some people call him TIM, I like to call him Louie) and a disappointing fight with a magic ninja, we finally, FINALLY return to Earth... and things go back to feeling rushed (frowny-face).  We're in London... for some reason.  The Reapers have moved the Citadel to Earth instead of out into dark space or, I don't know, anywhere else for that matter.  Oh, and this is Major Coats, he's voiced by Mark Strong and seems really important, but don't ask any specific questions about him.In what should be the most satisfying, emotionally charged point of the game, we get a deluge of unanswered or half-answered questions.  Everything moves along so quickly, so haphazardly, so... so...Let's take a breather and talk about story structure... actually, that would take forever and no one cares.  So let's just talk about one aspect: the 'obligatory scene'.  This is something that can be defined many ways, but I'll sum it up as 'the scene your audience is expecting to see' or 'the thing that, if we don't get it, we'll be really cranky'.  It's essentially the orgasm of your story, if that helps.  And if we're left without it... well, you get the point.There are a couple of things that we were hoping to see in Mass Effect 3, whether we realized it or not.  Certain plot threads that had been introduced or ideas that were slipped into our minds.  Of the many over the course of three games, those that stand out to me are: massive armies of mixed aliens fighting together, the Illusive man coming to some kind of conclusion (the bloodier the better; I hate that guy), and a some kind of show down with Harbinger, the unofficial mascot of the Reapers that's been hounding us since ME2.  The events of the previous games have put these thoughts into our heads as the most prevalent, most important facets left in the Mass Effect universe.  These are the things that, whether we can articulate it at the time or not, we're EXPECTING to see get played out, one way or another, before the curtain falls.  These are the OBLIGATORY scenes, based on all the scenes that have come before.And, save for the Illusive Man (and even that one's up for debate), they are not addressed.  We get two quick scenes of Krogan-Assari-Turian armies together.  No Geth anywhere, no Quarian, no Salarian, Elcor, Batarian, anything else we've put time into gathering.  That's it.  Then Harbinger shows up, whoops our ass good, and takes off like he's got 99 problems and we ain't one.  And THIS, in my meek little opinion, is why the ending is so frustrating.  I honestly and truly think that all the star-child weirdness, all the plot-resolving explosions, would have gone over much better if any of these other expected outcomes had been delivered.This is why I say the team, the writers, the whomever, were HASTY and RUSHED and definitely not BAD or LAZY.  They know these things, clearly, based on the strengths of the other games.  The BioWare team doesn't need me to explain story structure to them; they know it better than I do and have delivered shining examples time and time again.  It makes me feel like the outside world pressed heavy in some way and they had to rush out parts of the game before it was complete.  I can't see any other reason for leaving out such obvious and pressing plot points (potential plot points, I guess).I would love a documentary on just what the hell happened but, sadly, we'll never ever get one.And, you know what?  The Star Child, being of light thing doesn't bother me.  It's an odd choice, granted.  Evertyhing after the final charge on that oh-so convenient teleporter beam is... odd.  They took the esoteric route, for some reason, the anachronistic route, for the first time in the series.  It was a brave choice and, again, I do think that if they'd spent more time satisfying the obligatory scenes it would have gone over better.  But it was really surprising, in a universe that is so specific and literal, to have a sequence that may not be what it appears to be on the surface.  That may or may not be a dream or that could possibly be a... parable?  Maybe a cipher of some kind?  I don' know, but it's not the sort of thing that easily fits into Mass Effect, which has been a very literal, very `on the surface' sort of game, without many unexplained magic or fantasy elements.  How Mass Effect Technology works, Biotics, Element Zero - all these things are laid out clearly and succinctly, mostly.  I mean... I know how many testicles a Krogan has... that's a pretty specifically laid out world.  But once we're back on the Citadel things become strange, dreamlike, as though there's something more going on - some grand point being made that lies just beyond explanation.My personal take has always been that, once we reach the endgame, we've entered into the part of the story that later becomes a fable.  For me, the most important part of the whole ending are the Stargazers, Buzz Aldrin (seriously, google it) and the little kid after the credits, talking about tales of 'The Shepard' (get it?  GET IT!!??).  They're talking about an old story, about the person who saved humanity.  It sounds like he's telling an origin myth, like the Garden of Eden or Noah's Flood and all that - a fable about why the world is what it is.  Seriously, after Joker and whoever get off the busted Normandy (have their Adam and Eve moment) and the Relays get blowed up, just add Buzz Aldrin saying "...and that's why the world is the way it is today!"  It totally feels like they tried to change everything we'd been doing for three games into an Aesop.  "Once upon a time, humans could fly around the galaxy using magical devices called 'Mass Effect Relays..." or "Did you know, a long, long time ago, humans and robots were two different things?  And we used to fight each other?  Until, that is, the story of the Shepard..."It works but it's... such an odd choice.  I like that it embraces the severity of Shepard's situation - things are much bigger now than winning or losing a battle.  The star-child is forcing him to deal with some high concepts; can organics be trusted with the galaxy?  Can they ever truly control what they create?  Will this peace between the Quarian and Geth really last beyond the fight with the Reapers, or is it a pipe dream?  It stretches beyond the battle raging out the window and acknowledges that Shepard is at the apex of a cycle that has existed for epochs unknown and, in fact, unknowable.  That's a lot of pressure for one person.It's weird, it's potentially heady, but it's not the worst thing in the world.  Nor is it the worst ending I've ever seen.  I think it could have played out if a) it hadn't of been so rushed and b) the obligatory scenes were delivered.====The Epilogue and An Invitation to Suck It====None of this, as weird and unbalanced as it turned out, undoes for me the hundreds of hours of quality entertainment that the Mass Effect series has brought.  99 to 99.9% of the series is among the most well thought out, most imaginative, bravest stuff I've seen in the past ten years.  I've dreamt of the concept of a connected series of games, where the choices I make in one carry over to the next, for ages now.  And someone managed it - honestly and truly pulled it off.  And it's glorious.And now it will never happen again.Seriously, why would anyone bother?  With all the work that it takes to connect the games in a satisfactory way, the thousands of variable scripts that need to be written and accounted for, the hundreds of hours spent writing and recording double and triple dialogue for each scene - why would anyone do that again after BioWare tried it and all it got them in the end was a pile of bad player reviews and a page of youtube hate videos.  I would have been so much easier to just make three straight narratives and, in the end, the fans appreciated exactly NONE of it.  So why bother?  EA will make the exact same amount of money pushing out another Madden and will have to deal with ZERO grief from spoiled, unappreciative fans.So... to all those who cry for boycotts and send hate mail... just... just suck it.  You're ignoring thousands of hours of effort; hundreds of hours of lovely gameplay in a world that is more than worth revisiting again and again, in a series where the sequels are better than the originals and each adds replay value to the ones before simply by existing (name me one other series where that's true).  You're dooming us to years and years of more modern warfare clones and Halo sequels because, as soon as a company takes a risk on something unusual, you smack them in the face as hard and as loud as you can if you find any failings at all.  The amount of hate I've heard, from fans "demanding" the ending they "deserve", like petulant children, is going to frighten anyone from taking any risks again.  So just... just suck it already.Anyone who's bothered to read this far is bound to hit me with and 'unhelpful', or whatever it's called, and I seriously don't care.  Leave angry messages, whatever, I don't care.I fully appreciate the Mass Effect series: the ambitious writing, the solid action, the heart-felt story, the diverse characters, the excellent sound and music design, the unique world.  It's a series of games built with love and affection and devotion and I cannot fathom throwing all that away because the very last part of the very ending is disappointing.And it IS disappointing, I freely admit that, there's no denying that it doesn't work.  But to ignore all that has come before, all the work and all the love, is the pinnacle of immaturity and the epitome of the spoilt, selfish, childish gamer.  This stance murders creativity, it does not encourage it.Enjoy Halo 4 and Angry Birds 2 or whatever.  I'm done.tl;dr
This game is simultaneously overrated and underrated. Overrated because critics and fanboys blindly gave the game a pass without addressing its glaring, near deal-breaking faults such as a curious lack of choice, wonky dialogue, a cumbersome cover system, vague journal entries, Jessica Chobot, James Vega, an inexcusable glitch not allowing me to import my Shepard from ME1 and 2 (really, Bioware?) and the now infamous ending. However, I would argue that ME3 is also slightly underrated because, well, the game STILL has solid combat, fun weapons (I love the Scorpion, a heavy pistol that shoots out sticky proximity mines), great music and a some genuinely rich emotional moments that strike a chord. The game's horrible conclusion and inability (or unwillingness) to weave "my Shepard's" actions from ME1 and 2 may not enough to "ruin" the game/series entirely and, for that matter, retroactively (a la Matrix Revolutions) but it's certainly enough to elicit a sense of regret over what could have been the best science fiction story of this current console generation (Portal 2 is safe!).Edit: The new patch was not able to fix the face import issue. Unacceptable, Bioware. Dropping the game down to one star.
I hadn't played one or two so far 3 has been cool so far.  I hear the ending isn't great, but neither was the ending for MW3.The only shooter that ever felt like "home" to me was MOH 2010, all the way until the end.
Experiencing mass effect 3 was akin to finishing a great steak only to find a curly hair in your mouth. The last bit ruins the whole in retrospect.
If you have been following the Mass Effect series, then this game is a MUST. If you're a newcomer, Mass Effect 3 will blow your mind, and leave you quite a bit confused by the ending.The gameplay is varied and more "to the point" than previous entries. The combat has been streamlined to give you THE BEST 3rd person shooter experience EVER!The cutscenes/cinematics are amazing: some more epic than George Lucas could have ever done.BioWare added a co-op multiplayer component to this title that has a direct result to your single player experience. Multiplayer is NOT required to get the best experience. The combat is frantic, challenging, and a LOT of fun.There have been a LOT of haters who say the ending is horrible and "needs to be changed", and that the ending ruins the whole experience. Ignore these people. BioWare has done a GREAT job so far at keeping the Mass Effect series airtight with no plot holes. That being said, the ending leaves what I believe to be "plot holes", are actually FORESHADOWING. But if I have learned anything from the Mass Effect development team, they have already planned future DLC that answers a lot, and opens more doors.I believe these haters are underestimating BioWare, and are not paying attention to the subtle clues that the series has been giving us from DAY ONE!If you doubt me and don't mind spoilers, go to YouTube and watch vids on Indoctrination Theory. I think the best is yet to come!Oh, and Mass Effect 3 with worth the full asking price!!!
The item is good and no scratch on the discscongrats. The box was ok little bit crushed but the two Discs weregood
(WARNING THIS CONTAINS SPOILERS.....LIKE IT MATTERS)  Bioware showed how much they really care about their loyal Mass Effect fans with their final game, which is to say not very much.  The ending, excuse me, endings leave you with only three slightly different options, instead of the 16 that Bioware promised us.  Here's the overall effect;  Earth lives/dies; Reapers live/die; Shepard dies (expect for a slight "breath" at the very freakin end); All live dies and then reconverted; Normandy stranded.  Even in the "good" ending, all Mass Effect relays are destroyed which strands every being in the galaxy from one another.  No one can see their loved ones in other galaxies ever again and many planets will be starved of precious resources, including Earth.  The entire armada that came to save Earth will now end up killing each other over the tiny bit of resources left.  There is no happy ending out of all the choices the fans were supposed to have.  Instead of being the great wild ride that Bioware promised to deliver, it's more like you're given three paths.  One is a smooth paved road, the other a bumpy dirt path, and the last takes you through a rough jungle.  No matter which way you go you end up at the same point, at the same time just so you can die/kill everyone.I know changes to a video game are expensive and will likely never happen, unless we were lucky enough to see DLC.  So you would think that with several thousands of people complaining about the endings, Bioware would have the decency to at least apologize to the fans that aren't happy.  Nope, you're not even getting that.  Instead of sympathizing with the disgruntled fans, Bioware staff responsed that they knew what was right for the game.  I'm sorry, but when so many people are pissed off about something you did, I think you can at least come up with a better answer than "We did right."Finally, you have the whole Tali dilemma as well.  In Mass Effect 2 you had the chance to finally romance Tali, however you never got to see her face.  Gamers were left sitting behind the fourth wall, as their own character got to look at her face.  The most logical step would have been for Bioware to show, those romancing her into the third game, her freakin' face.  Nope, you get yet another face blocking video!  To add a bucket of salt to your "Tali wound" Bioware then adds a little photo to your Shepard's desk.  The photo is supposed to be Tali, except that "Tali" is nothing more than a Photo Shopped stock photo from a some company.  You can even find the original online!  How lazy is that?!Unless Bioware actually listens to their fans and pumps out some amazing single player DLC that addresses the major concerns, I strongly urge you not to buy this game.  Especially at $60, unless you like a very expensive heart ache.  If you want an equal cheaper experience, I suggest you get drunk during Old Yeller, while having someone punch you in the stomach.  My advice, buy the game used and don't give Bioware another cent.  Trust me, you won't have any problems finding a used copy since people are so disgusted.  Or go out and support your local Block Buster and just rent the game.
Mass Effect 3 is my last Bioware game I plan on buying for a very long time...wow...what a disappointment it was.  It was a long saga for me, as I pre-ordered the original Mass Effect, when launched, and I loved Mass Effect 2, even with the watering down.  As with Dragon Age Awakenings to Dragon Age Crap, aka DA2, Bioware has fallen off the cliff.  I certainly understand the need to streamline ME3, because of the the realism of a race against time to counter the Reapers, but c'mon, they took so much out of it.  Sorry, but this game felt rush, rush, rush.  The ending was generic and predictable as all heck.  Also, the final 45 min  - 1 hour of the game was like a run on cut-scene, and the  whole ending sequence...barf.  I was so disappointed by this game, and stacking this against some like Skyrim or other deep RPGs, like the Witcher 2 really shows how this game falls down.  Bioware, you guys have lost my money, and I'm not sure how much longer I am going to stay in SWTOR.  Sorry, but I am done with Bioware getting my money.The combat was fun and fluid, but after so much of its repetitive combat, you just get tired of it.  Hours on end, I've spent in ME universe, and they all amount to nothing, as in the end, it was a cheap ending, like that episode of The Colby's where Aliens showed up!  Just flat out stupid, and riddiculous how this story ties up 4  years of gaming.  I'll say again, sell and buy the game USED to depravie Bioware (EA) of the money they so desperately crave!
For obvious reason, the ending of Mass Effect 3 is where I will start my review. Having played ME1 four times and ME2 six times, along with various saves with various sets of decisions, I really looked forward to ME3 - but with apprehension.  Needless to say, much to my disappointment, my apprehension became a reality in an unexpected way: A high-flying tale of grand adventure - and one of the best of all time - crash landed both literally and figuratively at the final moment.And it does not matter how I will attempt to salvage the wreckage of an ending that was stolen from Ion Storm's Deus Ex (and badly applied to ME3), whether by believing that it's all is a marketing scam to sell more DLCs; or get indoctrinated into believing the `Indoctrination Theory'; or pandering to some cop-out philosophical concepts like cosmicism,  the circle of life, the galactic cycle, cyclical history, etc.; or wait patiently for EA/bioware to release the CE (stands for *complete* edition in this case); or simply made one up on my own... The ending still remains what it is, and just like the Normandy, it's a wreck. In other words, no matter what I dress it up in, and how many times I take it out on the dance floor for a spin, and what tune we dance to, the ending still sucks -- That's that, and it's now out of the way as far as my review is concerned.As my 4-star ratings for fun indicated, in spite of the pretentious ending, not all is lost because there is still a good 30 hours or so of excellent gameplay here if one can somehow temporarily put aside the ending.  Granted, a 30-hours game is noticeably shorter than ME1 or ME2, but whatever length there is - after whatever EA/bioware ripped out for DLC(s), or never get the time to complete -  is excellent for the most part.Right of the bat, I noticed that the cover finally features a femShep, which gets a thumb-up from me as I have more games saves with femShep than maleShep.  In addition, the game comes on 2 discs, and is stable with only 1 freeze.As for the gameplay,  ME3 is the undisputed winner in the combat arena for the ME series.  Although the different races that you can fight against are now narrowed down to human, Geth, and reapers, the sub classes within each race have increased significantly and will require you to employ different tactics and team members.Also, melee combat is also improved with the addition of a strong melee attack -  which your enemies also employed - with a new weapon, the Omni blade featured on the DVD cover.  The cover system have also improved - but still need work; Shepard is now more mobile and agile than ever, but still can inadvertently get into cover position at inopportune time.The most significant improvement of all combat-wise is that the enemies have vastly improved AI which really boosts aggressiveness.  They will now try to flank you; use smoke screen for concealment; melee specialists will close in on you; snipers will harass you; and some enemies even camp out until you saunter past. Unfortunately, your fire team members'AI improvement is a no-match to your enemies' AI.  Although your teammates can now shoot a little better from cover, without tight management, they still run head first into hostile fire or into friendly line of fire (blocking my view), or worse yet, come up behind me and try to shoot at the enemies through my helmet.Also, another minor let down is that, for about half of the game, in spite of the improved elements, the combat itself boils down to the MP style gameplay of holding an area against waves of enemies until a certain event took place; this gets progressively worse especially when you returned to Earth.In terms of RPG, in general, ME3 is a mixed result between ME1 and ME2.  To be sure, ME1 is still has the best RPG elements in the series; while ME3 is better than ME2 is some ways, but worse in others. To be more precise, in tern of conversational options, ME3 is the worst by far.  Way too often - and almost to the point of all the time, your choices are limited to either paragon or renegade; whereas in ME1 and ME2, there is almost always at least one neutral option.However, the weapon mods in ME1 - which I really like - are making a big comeback, along with a significant increase in weapon upgrades and selections.  As for armor, there is now a wider selection of armor and armor components for Shepard.  Your team mates' armor, unfortunately, remain purely cosmetic.BTW, The Normandy also saw some improvement, most notable is the fact that you can now move about the ship freely.  Incidentally, your teammates also move around the ship - which certainly adds a touch of more realism than before.Thankfully, mini games have been almost completely eliminated.  Scanning the planet is now a painless task - And along with planet scanning, there is also a totally optional mini game of `eluding the reapers' - which I do not mind playing (I also discover a startling fact while playing this mini-game: Under normal propulsion, reapers can move faster than the Normandy !)Story wise, which is the heart and soul of the ME series, (not counting the disastrous ending), ME3 also shines brightly in the relatively short amount of game time.  The highlight of the story, and one that is extremely well done, is the resolution of the Krogan/Turian/Salarian conflict and the Geth vs. Quarian war - And this part alone is the saving grace of the game for me.Also, it suffices to say that you will meet all of your former teammates again - provided they did not kick the bucket.  Some of these former teammates will happily rejoin you again - and if you have hooked up with them before, needless to say, you will get the chance to rekindle the romance.  In short, in terms of the story, everything that takes place away from Earth is noteworthy - if not superb.If I have to rank the game in the series, it'd be ranked precisely in its chronological order of 1, 2, 3.  It's too bad ME3 is a cracked diamond.  Otherwise, the ranking would have been 3,1,2.  For what it's worth, I still recommend this game to ME fans and new comers alike - but not at full retail price.In conclusion, for better or for worse, it is what it is; and as is, the Mass Effect story has come to an end in my book - And for the most part, it certainly was a grand adventure while it lasted.  Keelah' Selai.------------------------------------------------------Update 11/8/12: I give the game an additional star - making it 3-stars - due to the Extended Cut DLC.  Although definitely still unworthy of the Mass Effect series, the EC DLC did addressed some plot holes, and make the ending choices somewhat better than before.
I loved the ME series.  I played 1 & 2 multiple times, testing variations and exploring the game.ME 3 is not a bad game, they got a lot of the mechanics right, and during most of the game they offered a good experience.But as we are all mentioning here the endings are not acceptable.  Either Bioware/EA has absolutely no sense whatsoever not to realize the ending makes no sense and betrays the entire series (and not because it is sad or happy, but because it is a cheat and stupid) or they planned to sell the "real" ending on a DLC later on.  I don't know which is worse, if they are so senseless or so corrupt to the point of selling the ending of a trilogy without the ending in order to make a few extra bucks.I dare say this failure sets back videogames as a media for storytelling considerably.I also believe that the gaming magazines, all of which raved about the game, now have two very bad reasonable choices.  They can admit the reviewed the game without ending it, which would be ok and we would understand why they gave such a review; or they should acknowledge they are nothing more than a propaganda mill and their review independence is nill.  This game was released less than 10 days ago, and we have already nearly 600 negative reviews all talking about the ending.
This game has the best gameplay out of the trilogy in my opinion. I especially appreciate the fact that sprinting is much faster and I can run for as long as I like unlike in Mass Effect 2. With the great gameplay aside, we all know the problems, THE ENDING.Fortunately the extended cut came out when I bought this brand new and my xbox had the space so I was able to enjoy the ending, or endings, somewhat. The extended cut is close to 2gb, however, so be aware.Despite the ending, I still liked the game overall.
Just beat Mass Effect 3 - the entire game, I'm thinking to myself, "The ending will no doubt blow my mind beyond any comprehension!"To my surprise, it was a HUGE letdown. I won't spoil it for anyone, but I just have to say - EA or Bioware, please release a DLC that gives me a better ending - an example would include perhaps a romanced person.I was dead-set on re-rolling all 3 games until the massively disappointing plot wrap up. Boo Bioware, boo.Update:After reviewing various boards since game completion, i'll say this Bioware - make it right or you and I are Donezo, what? Donezo.No but really, I don't plan on buying anything you touch unless it's fixed :)
Played this series since game one, expected my choices and such to carry over into Mass Effect 3. NOPE! Had to deal with characters discussing things that I've never done in the ME series and then the horribly bad ending.If you want to actually play this pile, go for it.However Bioware/EA can go suck a fatty instead of taking my money EVER AGAIN!
This game is the culmination of three video games and hundreds of hours of obsession. I have played the first two titles over and over. This game is a lot of what I was looking for in a sequel, but doesn't measure up to the original in my book. Maybe I am simply too old school where RPGs are concerned.
I too was not able to import my Shep's face. Don't believe the hype, this isn't a cloud save issue. Even if it was, it doesn't excuse it.I am being penalized apparently for buying 2 of their games. I have an ME1 save imported to ME2, and that somehow disables my Shep from keeping his face.I even checked the presets (because I think my Shep was a preset, slightly modified) and found no one who looked close. It's a let down and a disappointment, and to me I now feel I wasted money to get release day shipping (i.e. should've waited for a sale or price drop).Until it's fixed, I won't be able to enjoy my game, and I hope BioWare and/or EA does something to apologize to their loyal customers. The low rating is to help warn people who are like me before they spend their money, and because I effectively cannot play my game the same day I purchased it because of a bug.I knew it would be hard to keep the series going strong, but this is a pretty poor start. (And to those who poo poo on people complaining about this bug. A bug is a bug is a bug, and this is unacceptable. They knew they were going to sell enough copies to release Day1DLC, so they should've did some quality control).PS - To add insult to injury, I had to patch the game for some reason out of the box.
I bought and gave away this game before the huge extended cuts came, but before that I don't see what all the fuss was about. The entire story is epic, importing ME2 characters was easy enough, and the online multiplayer is pretty cool (though it lacks enough gameplay modes and shouldn't NEED to be played to get the best possible outcome in the game, especially since you need to buy a pass seperately if you get this game second-hand)
My wife asked me why do you like to play video games. I told her video games aren't just games anymore, but living breathing movies, and that is exactly what the Mass Effect series is. A living breathing story that YOU get to decided how it ends.The fact that I have been able to determine the end of "my saga" as Commander Shepherd is unheard of in gaming. The fact that decisions I made back in 2007's Mass Effect are coming to fruition today in 2012. I recommend this game to everyone that loves interactive story-telling.Concerning the game ALMOST everything is as good or better than Mass Effect 2. The graphics are better, the controls are better, the menus are better, the voice acting is amazing. The ending of this game though, as many have complained, is really bad. Plot holes abound as well as the muting of antagonist that simply become puppets. WTF is all I have to say. It is clear that Mass Effect 3 never went through any type of quality control or feedback from game testers, because not only did it have bugs not allowing the importation of custom characters from the previous two Mass Effects (which was the most touted feature of the series), but nobody in their right mind would have gone with that ending with a happy "hell ya" that was awesome. I kid you not its that bad.I'm not surprised since this game is coming from EA. They are the 2012 WORST COMPANY IN AMERICA.Bottom line the game is awesome. It does have fantastic game play, fantastic voice acting and animations, has a great story...until the very fricking end. Hopefully the "Extended Cut" DLC ending that Bioware was forced to release this coming summer do to the backlash, fixes the terrible ending and makes us all happy.In conclusion this should have been a 10 out of 10 game. Because of the ending I give it 8/10.
I dont know why so many ME geek fans were upset.? This video game was KILLER! Way better than the second. And the ending was beautiful, what more can you expect?
What can I say about Mass Effect 3? It seems that most people agree that this game is fanatasic up until the last 10 minutes or. Honestly, I really loved this game and it nearly surpasses the first two. But the "endings" totally goes against the game. But here are my points.The good-Seeing all of our favorite characters return was the best thing ever. Having Garrus and Tali in the party again felt perfect and bringing back old favs like Liara and Ashley/Kaiden made this team feel almost complete. Only two new characters (one is DLC) join the team and they have interesting backstories, but no loyalty missions sadly. Edi finally picks up a gun and now joins the fight. The rest of the team from ME2 are still around and they help out Sheapard with certain missions. Some complain that they were only cameos which I strongly disagree. They appear more than once and some play an important role in the story. It isn't like they come in only to go "Hi Shepard. Bye Shepard." It still felt great to see all of them and still have "moments" with them. On top of that, they all have a kind of banter with each other. From James not catching Javik's jokes to Garrus catching up with Liara. This was something ME2 truly lacked and this game made up for it. We even see certain minor characters make comebacks like Conrad Verner. This to me felt rewarding to the player-Emotional impact. There were plenty of moments in this game that had me in tears. From seeing some of my favorite characters die to seeing a planet getting reduced to rubble. This game truly had me on the edge. There was plenty moments where my heart was pounding in excitment. The story was well written (until the ending) and it did hit me in the right areas.-The gameplay went through minor but nessesary changes. You can now roll and melee in the battles. The opponites are tough in a fun way instead of a fustrating way. The gameplay may be a bit Gears of War light, but it didn't bother me a bit. It was fast paced and fun. Although they abandon heavy weapons as item you need to pick up instead.-The voice acting is still spot on. I really loved all the character's personalitys. Although that one chick from IGN that appears in this game needs acting lessons-The story is still greatly written. It had a dark feeling of dred and desperation to it. But it wasn't completly devoid of it's lighter/ humorous moments. I did feel powerful at times. I could make peace between two centry old rival races or condem one in favor of the other, both with a satisfying result. I was really feeling like a hero in the making.-Customized weapons. I can now add certain mods to all of my weapons for better states. It almosts gives this game a slight RPG feel to it. I can also customize my armor too, giving my Shepard a uniqe look.-Level design/ missions are great. While most are liner than the first two games, they still have a fun factor to them. Nothing looks the same and they all look uniqe. From Mars to Grissom School to the Ardat Yatshi (if that's how you spell it) Temple.The Bad-Some missions are simply petty fetch quests. Half the time, you'll hear someone talking about an item (either a book or an artifact) they need for whatever reason. All Shepard has to do is go the planet the item is one then scan it and bring it back. It get pretty boring at times and they could have had invovled side missions.-The mission journal is almost useless now. It doesn't keep track of your progess like the first 2 games did. They don't collapse to reveal what you need to do next. Most of the time, it doesn't tell you where you need to go. Such as it would say I have to go a certain planet, but it doesn't tell me what system it's in. I spent a half hour trying to find certain planets. It would have been great if it kept up with my progress.-There isn't to much talking with the "choice wheel." Sometimes when you talk to teammates, it's in a set way where your only listening to the characters speak rather than interact. Kind of similar to the converations with Kasumi & Zaeed in ME2.-Collecting War Assests for noting. One of the main things that got me hooked was gathering different races to fight for you. Like the Geth, Krogan, Rachi and Batarians. Even some charaters offer hired guns to help out. I expected it to be like Dragon Age Origins where you saw the different races come to your aid and can be called upon to help in the final battles in that game. I wanted to see those races fight with their own ships or their own skills on the ground. Instead, we only see humans fight in the final battle while we only see some of the other races report in. The only good the war assests are for is raising your galactic readiness so we can get the "better" ending.-The final battle was almost a let down. While my heart was still pounding during some scenes in this fight, I still felt more could have been done. I wanted to retake earth from the Reapers slowly but surly. I wanted to go to certain places like New York to Tokyo while taking down speical types of Reapers. I wanted my war assets to play a major role. I wanted a suicide  type mission where certain teamamtes can die (or war assets) if you made the wrong choices. Instead it was a liner mission in London where the choices have no impact. While it still gave me a certain feeling of dred in my first playthrough, I felt it could have needed more.-The ending. What more do I have to say? Everybody knows how bad the endings are. They are full of plot holes that goes against ME lore. Introducing a new character that gives you a terrible (as in poorly done) reason the Reapers do what they do. It ruins the impact of the Reapers and it demystifies them too. Then the endings are nothing but a typical "choose A,B,or C." The "endings" themselves have little to no difference to them. Each one all leds to the same unsatifying result. The endings gives us more questions than answers. It lacked closer. We don't see how the universe is shaped or what my team does after the battle. The game just ends faster than you can say WTF. But what really makes me mad is the fact that there is no option for a happier ending! Why does Shepard "has" to die in game about making choices on how we want a story to play out? Why are the villain's goals (Cerberus & Reapers) the "right" choices while the hero's goal (Shepard & Anderson) the wrong one? While I give credit to Bioware for trying something different, this ending just feels more disconnected to the rest of the game than any ending in other games.The OkMultiplayer. I didn't feel like ME3 ever needed multiplayer. The game should have only focased on it's single player campain. But MP was actually somewhat enjoyable. It has a very Left 4 Dead/ Horde mode feel to it. It was also a great oppertunity to play as our favorite races. I had fun bashing Reaper troops as a Krogan. I thought it was clever too that they had MP affect your readiness in the main game. It gives you reason to play it.  But MP does get boring after a while. All you do is survive all 11 rounds with only small objectives (like guard this post or take down a certain AI). It gets boring after a whileOverall, I think Mass Effect 3 was a total step up from the first two games. There were tones of moments in the game that made my heart pound. But the overall climax and ending was a BIG letdown. The ending could ruin the game (or the series) for most because we know that our choices arn't going to matter. But if your like me and you can just shrug off the ending, you'll be in for a ride with this game. But Bioware really needed to do something about the games endings. Wheter it's them giving us a version that makes sense or they flat out change it, they need to know that they did something wrong. I refuse to believe that they (or any pro reviewer)are actually happy with the ending. But they still have yet to make DLC for this games, so we can only wait.
EDIT 2:Okay so EC explained some things out and filled in alot of holes. It's a so-so ending for the series now, but it does end the series, not leaving us reaching out blindly anymore.While I still would like to know about Shepard's life after the war(Does she/he live after that breathe scene?). I'm not all that upset anymore, more due to the fact that I've moved on, than anything that EA/Bioware has done.I would suggest playing it now, just not for the story anymore, just for the combat.EDIT: Okay so Bioware might be able to make a come back, IF(very BIG IF) the dlc ending that they are going to give for FREE at the end of the summer sorts everything out. Truthfully, I'm not holding out hope for it. The explaination of this new ending stuff, is just that Bioware will "Clarify"(their word not mine) what happened in the ending. I don't want THEIR ending CLARIFIED.......I want the ending that my character, my shepard was working towards, the one I the believed would be possible especially after they claimed to have 16 DIFFERENT ENDINGS!!!!Only time will tell if this EC, saves ME or if it just finished digging the hole for EA to dump Bioware into._______________________________________________________________________Bioware did a great job on the game.....until the ending itself.They really dropped the ball there, and at the moment it seems like they don't care about that or the fact that the customers and fans are both angry/upset about it.I've been a loyal Bioware customer for years now, and an even more loyal Mass Effect fangirl(yes we girls play it too.)I was so excited about this, but now....I can't even bring myself to look at the games because I know that all the work I did, all the choices that I took, they didn't mean anything, it was all a lie, useless.If Bioware wanted this to be how it ended, then I really can't see how they are going to keep business anymore, because I know that myself and all the other fans that are outraged by this tragedy are not going to be giving them our money anymore.
I first got into Mass Effect after watching my brother in law play the first one. It looked cool but, I wasn't about to drop another 60 bucks that year after Gears of War and Halo 3 plus Call of Duty 4 were all reserves for me. So when my mother in law R.I.P. Ms.Jumanah, said I could get a video game for my birthday gift I thought why not try Mass Effect? The first Mass Effect was EPIC in my opinion. The choices, the combat, the custimazation was insane. Long story short I loved it. Shortly after that my mother in law passed away. She was very kind to me even though I didn't deserve it. Mass Effect was one of the best gifts anyone has given me. I am talking about the adventure. I was stoked for the second one when it was released. I drove all the way from Baltimore to Lancaster to get my copy.The second ME was just as awesome with new and returning characters. Different places to explore. New races to encounter. I even bought ALL the DLC: Kasumi, Zaeed, Overlord. Mass Effect 2 really got me into DLC period. Plus my biggest draw to the second was the import feature. All your past choices and actions followed you into the second game which I don't think any other game has ever done on a console. I even replayed the 1st game to boost my characters level for the upcoming import into part 2.Now fast forward a few years. Here comes part 3. I am ready to stomp the Reapers and save the galaxy and get it on with Liara (My romantic choice!) I am again replaying the first and second games to level boost and refresh the choices I made while playing. I have tried to stay away from the spoiler reviews and will update this once I get my collectors edition in afghanistan and finish the fight (Yes I aped Halo 3) and see the ending for myself. Maybe it will be bad or good but, I am going in open minded and see what Bioware has in store for me. I don't finish many games but, Mass Effect good ending or terrible one will be regardless one of my fondest memories in gaming. Thank you mother in law. Love you.
Mass Effect 3 is probably one of my favorite games. The mechanics of the first two games are maintained without being stale. The story is great. All around just an awesome game.
ME3 is one the best game out there. currently there's a huge crisis about the ME3 endings, sadly things are not always appreciated or sometimes people forget about future or some gratitude.go to the store, buy the game... you will enjoy it, dream about it, feel desperate to understand the adventure and people thoughts about the ending.anyway choice you take at the very end...it will be up to you, your interpretation and your very personal expectations.ME3 is not perfect like everything else in this world. don't look for plotholes....look for possibility new games, new story continuity.I hope you play and enjoy it.
I am shocked at how many people can give such a great game a one-star rating simply because they didn't care how it ended.  Did you get lost in the lore or the Mass Effect universe?  I did.  Did you put 100's of hours into the franchise and enjoyed every minute of it?  I did.  Did you have difficulty making key morally gray decisions?  I did.  Mass Effect is well worth the proper five star rating.  Give it a chance, and ignore the nay-sayers.  I just finished it and actually enjoyed the ending.  I though it was a great game, head to toe.
I imported my character from Mass Effect, to Mass Effect 2, to Mass Effect 3.  The choises I picked led to a good ending for Mass Effect 3 (some people are complaining about the ending).  I had no problem with the game or story at all.  A good ending to a great trilogy!
This series has been my favorite in all of gaming and this last one did not disappoint. Loves me some female shepard.
This was the first game that I ever bought at a midnight release party and that I spent the extra money for the Collector's Edition version. Why? Because BioWare's MASS EFFECT series is the BEST VIDEO GAME SERIES EVER. You know how I know this? I know this because I generally HATE RPG's and if I can be so obsessively devoted to a single gaming franchise that happens to be an RPG, then you can take that to the bank. As MASS EFFECT 3 stands, from a pure gaming standpoint, it's near perfect, and it's an improvement from the first two games. No more annoying planet scanning; a smoother combat system; no more ridiculous mini-games; tighter and more seamless graphics; epic battles.The real problem that almost everyone is having with this game is with the last hour of the game. And while I understand the frustration with that ending and even share it...It's time to stop.This is NOT a 2 and a half star game. It's time to stop with all of the outcry against the ending and having that be THE ONLY REASON you're all giving it one or two-star reviews. Before you get to that last hour of the game, you are in awe of everything that has come before it. The epic sensibilities of the conflicts; the engaging side-missions; the moving, dramatic stories of each character... you still LOVE that stuff. This is what makes the MASS EFFECT games worth playing. Did anyone moan and groan about how admittedly lame the final confrontation between Shepard and Saren was in the first game? NO. I get it. I know you're angry. When I was playing it, I was loving it. A few days later, I didn't like the ending. A few days after that, I hated it. I didn't feel like bringing back my FemShep from ME1 and 2 to run through her mission, since I had just done my Commander Shepard character brought from ME1 and 2 just to have her run into the same ending.I know where the anger comes from: BioWare promised us an epic resolution to possibly the most epic series of all time. BioWare also promised that just about every decision you make in this game will have an effect on the ending. They didn't completely live up to that promise so it makes it seem like all the decisions you made are for nothing.It's not. Despite the fact that you don't like the ending doesn't mean that the journey there wasn't TOTALLY worth it, because it was. It took me some time to come to this realization.Hopefully, before you give it the knee-jerk bandwagon reaction most of you are, you'll think about what an awesome time you had playing the game up front and not have tunnel-vision merely on the ending.
3.5 stars - but you'll play it and love it, just like me.  Incredibly fun, but incredibly disappointing as well.I love Mass Effect and play a few replays, as well as numerous saves to get all the good options.  I took off half of a star for the release date DLC, which was 10 dollars.  I purchased it, foolishly, for the extra conversations with my teammates.  I didn't feel chock full of great conversations like I did in Mass Effect 2.  I liked that the support roles played a bigger part... the reporter, the Kelly Replacement, the shuttle pilot.. but I was able to have very few conversations with my teammates, Liara seemed to have the most options for talk.  I imagine if I had one less conversation with every member because I didn't purchase the DLC I would have been pretty disappointed.Okay.  Second, so many early quests are "Do something that helps the war effort and happens to bring you in contact with one of your old crewmates."  I took off a half star for this because it wasn't natural.  Everyplace I went, I met an old buddy.  It just didn't feel natural, and each time I was surprised like, "OMG, I thought I'd never see you again" but the reality was, I was pretty much in the phone book looking up old contacts.I took off a half star for the endings.  Literally, there are 3 endings, which apparently they call 16 endings even though they only have teensie weensie minor differences based on your "War readiness".  I took off half a star for the fact that I have to play Multiplayer to get my war readiness high enough to get the good ending. I have a feeling this is an anti-piracy ploy, but for those of us who don't really care to play non first-person-shooter multiplayer, it kind of sucks.  Mass Effect doesn't have roots in online multiplayer, why should I have to do that?  Edited again :  I did have a bug regarding my ending availability that did occur again from the end game sequence but didn't occur again from the end game mission.  Instead of getting three options, I only got two.I added a star because of the cute conversations that happen when your team roams around the Normandy.  My favorite?  Catching two beloved friends having a day-before-we-die makeout session.  I also loved how they would be on the talking on the intercom with the others.  Cute.I liked the new and improved weapons loadout, which was simple but not as simple as ME2. The addition of weight and it's affect on your power-recharging speeds is pretty neat.  Gameplay and strategy feels great on hardcore, and I'm looking forward to some frustration if I do decide to play insanity.I liked the balance of powers.  I didn't much care for the fact that there wasn't a biotic-combat (vanguard) character on the squad.  Yeah, the DLC new guy is one, but that kind of doesn't count.  It makes the release-date DLC seem that much crummier.  I also feel like I didn't have enough playable characters.  That said, I wish they had picked push over pull as far as biotic powers.I removed a half star because there were a few parts that didn't make sense with the plot.  They're not huge, but just kind of nonsensical.  No spoilers!  Not all are focused around the messy endings but a lot of them are.On one hand, I want to play to see if I had not saved some characters in ME2 how my experiences would have gone. On the other hand, I realize it just brings me to those three bland endings and I get kind of sad. I do want the character interaction, so perhaps I'll just replay the first few quests (the meet-former-squadmates on the war effort ones) and see what happens there.I'll tell you after romancing the Drell (Thane) in ME2, I can say I was pretty short on romance in my life and pretty high on tears.  Those scenes were great.  The growing desperation of other races and the scope of the game?  Fan-tastic. Bringing the universe together to fight on a single front?  Oh my!  I had feared that side quests would either be phased out or seem out of place, but they all seemed quite reasonable.  They're all "Bring this to me if you see it during your search".  What's really cool is that your shipmates come aboard the citadel, so you can speak to them elsewhere.  I thought this was a nice touch.  I was impressed with a lot of things, but I don't think it's the same caliber as the first two games.If I hadn't played Me1 and Me2, I would probably give this game a 4.5, but coming down from SO MUCH CONVERSATION and these great cinematic endings that just made you feel so goddamned good to these weak cinematic endings that pretend to give you options and choices.  I think it's a natural progression, though.. when handling something with such scope it's very hard to strike the balance that pleases.Also, it's not that the ending is bittersweet or unhappy that bothers me, it's just the way it's done.  It's almost worse than the Matrix.  I know the writers are great, so I'm going to have to ask for an ending re-do!OH.  And I read the Dietz book in the Mass Effect universe, so if you have, look forward to some nice bits from there.
After 28 hours of shooting monsters, playing diplomat and trying to romance fellow crew members my time with 'Mass Effect 3' came to a close and I had to decide whether or not to start up a new game. It's not very often I feel like I'm a part of a video game trilogy that's spanned almost five years and it's incredibly satisfying seeing how the gameplay has changed, improved and expanded in this series. Unfortunately 'Mass Effect' has been a surprisingly unpolished video game since the start and for every improvement 'Mass Effect 3' has made a lot of the flaws in this series have gone unchecked.Unlike the original 'Mass Effect' (and the 20 minute-long tutorial/character creator that began Mass Effect 2) 'Mass Effect 3' wastes no time throwing you from the character creator/importer into it's main conflict: series villains, the robotic "Reapers" are attacking earth and destroying everything in their path. As the hero, Commander Shepard you must escape off-planet and rally help from other alien races before things get worse. Needless to say the story in 'Mass Effect 3' hits on some serious levels and the feeling of "this is the end" is realized from the beginning with a powerful music score and images of buildings burning, people and children dying and Reapers tearing through cities in the background. Like 'Mass Effect' and 'Mass Effect 2' the narrative in this epic tale doesn't always hold up to scrutiny (and I would've loved to have more time with some of the returning characters like Jack, Jacob and Grunt) but 'Mass Effect 3' knows how to deliver it's emotional punches and I found myself cheering and choking up a couple times.As with the previous games, 'Mass Effect 3' has you playing equal parts Soldier and Diplomat: Before giving Shepard help the other galactic races have you solving their problems which involve fighting off the pro-human splinter-group Cerberus as well as brokering peace-treaties. While the dialogue wheel is present (with some, but not a lot of Paragon/Renegade options) solving conflicts and gathering resources in the Normandy gives you numeric score, or "War Assets". The total number of Assets you have determines how the story will play out in the end (i.e. how much "help" you have before join the battle on earth). I'm not completely a fan of "numbers" playing such a big role in decision making, especially with the added "Galactic Readiness" chopping things in half if you don't use the multiplayer but it's an interesting, if impersonal way for your decisions to impact the story.The story-moments in 'Mass Effect 3' carry the same strong cast and voice-acting as the previous installments (with Freddie Prinze Jr. a welcome addition as Lieutenant James Vega) but the combat has received a major overhaul. Gone are the Tom Clancy-lite moments of ME1 and the empty corridors and mini-games of ME2; Combat is fast and frenetic as guns have a lot more weight to them feeling more like 'Vanquish' or 'Gears of War' than previous ME games. Enemies rush you from every direction (in normal mode) and you'll have to dodge, cover and combine squad powers to take down the strongest of them. This creates great moments of tension while still making you feel like a total bad-ass! The only problem I had was that some of my class-powers didn't work half the time which became frustrating when I had to rely on them (namely the Infiltrator's snipe-focus).While I can deal with the "War Assets" and some unreliable class-abilites, as I played Mass Effect 3 I kept asking myself one question: why is this game series, after THREE GAMES still having the same technical issues? Graphics fade in and out, limbs and characters disappear, and to make matters worse I can't import my character appearance I've had since ME1. Again, nothing that really killed my enjoyment of the game ( I eventually came up with something that kinda-sorta looked like my character) but seeing these problems still present after five years is both disappointing and little heart-breaking.The ending of 'Mass Effect 3' has caused some outrage among fans, demanding both explanations and complete rewrites of the game. I understand the disappointment as there are no clear-cut story resolutions nor is there much difference in the endings you're given. But even if I hated the finale (I didn't) the ending's never been what I remember about a video game and frankly it doesn't come close to ruining how much fun the gameplay is or forgetting the moments that had me choking up on the Tuchanka missions.In the end I restarted 'Mass Effect 3' and am still enjoying the hell out of it (the multiplayer's surprisingly fun too). I really hope there's updates to fix the character importer and class-power-glitches (and as of 6/26 Bioware's added more DLC to flesh out the ending), but overall I'm very happy with the experience. If you're new to the series you definitely want to start out with the first game as there's so much carry-over from the previous titles (many conflicts from the previous games like the Krogan Genophage and Quarian/Geth War are finally resolved), but I think 'Mass Effect 3' stands very well as a conclusion to the trilogy.
Initially, I already had it made up in mind that this game was 15/10, perfect game, and quite possibly the greatest game ever made. I flipped from site to site to read reviews to see if others shared my insight and was shocked to find so many that felt the complete opposite. I told myself "they must be new guys because nobody that's a true fan dating back to 2007 would speak so negatively". I was wrong.95% of the game prior to the end is fantastic. Everything is improved. I really thought the graphics were exceptional. And it was nice seeing old faces from 1 and 2 side by side. Even the multiplayer is good. Sadly, it's not enough. The new journal stinks and all the enemies do is launch non-stop grenades at you (which is an instant death on insanity).***Spoilers below***The EndingA new and unknown character depicted as a young boy (who presume to be AI or synthetic) comes out and proclaims to the be the creator of the Reapers. He then proceeds to the Reaper cycle is a "solution" with the purpose being to stop the chaos of the created (synthetics) killing their creator (organics). He goes on to say that they take (kill/harvest) the strong races to "ascend" them while also allowing weaker races to flourish. He proclaims to have seen it all before and also claims to know how it always ends. He then tells Shepard that "hope" is useless. Lastly, he rejects any suggestions or concerns given by Shepard and in return, tells him what his only options are.Why It SuckedFirst, who and what is this boy? And what happened to the Reapers just being a synthetic race, similar to the Geth? Now, all of a sudden, there this new AI leader. Why have we been looking at Sovereign and Harbinger prior to now then?Second, this "solution" has only one beneficiary and that's synthetics. Everytime organics grow in strength, here come the Reapers to harvest us which in return makes them smarter and stronger. If the purpose is really to "ascend" a race, why not choose a weaker race? But no, the weak are left behind because they do not pose a threat. Why did the Reapers start attacking human colonies - because they posed a bigger threat than the other organics. How come this solution doesn't call for any synthetics to die? Organics have our own, natural solution. Whether it's old age, diseases, or violence - no organic lives forever with being wiped out. In short, we don't need his solution.Third, if this boy (as a synthetic) cares so much about the life of organics and the preservation of synthetics, why doesn't he use the Reapers as a means to control his fellow synthetics? THEY ARE THE PROBLEM! Synthetics are machines, not people. They are created for specific purposes. The problem arises when they become "too smart" on their own and no longer want to do what they were created for. THIS IS WHAT CAUSES THE SAID "CHAOS". So instead of punishing organics, the Reapers should round up, reprogram, or kill/shut down the rebellious AI. With this boy's solution, organic creators are submitting to their created synthetic. That's not how it works. They want to be #1 and then dictate. This boy has overstepped his boundaries by not only deciding the fate of synthetics but also organics. And no one asked him for this. Initially, the only hostile synthetics were Geth and after the Quarian left, they stayed on their planet, to themselves, and in peace. It was another synthetic, Reapers, that made them hostile again. So again, who is the real problem?Fourth, Hope is not useless. Hope is a strength of humans that other races sometimes mock but ultimately admire. Hope led Shepard to defeat Matriarch Benezia, Saren, and Sovereign (a Reaper) in ME1. Hope led Shepard to assemble a team of mixed races despite cultural tensions that existed to come together and take down Harbinger and a Collector Base in ME2. Hope is what allowed Shepard to unite all organic life and end past wars (for the sake of fighting the Reapers united. I'd say Hope is pretty damn useful!Fifth, when Shepard says we'd like to stay who and how we are because otherwise we'd just be machines doing as we're told and the boy rejects it, why is Shepard's input no longer relevant from that point? The boy gets to say what the only options will be. The boy claims to know it all yet he admits in the same sequence that his solution is flawed or will not work. Well what else is wrong about? He never foresaw or knew Shepard would make it far enough to be there standing with him but there he (Shepard) was which proves him (the boy) wrong again.Sixth, since when does Shepard move to the beat of someone else's drum? All throughout 1 and 2, Shepard was persistent in what he was doing. If you cooperated - great, if you didn't, he found a way to do it anyway. He did it his way. Now, when the boy poses him with only 2-3 options (depending on war assets, readiness, etc.), he's left (forced) to choose one. What happened to the "do it my way or give me death Shepard"?Seventh, the so-called best ending is actually the worst. I love Shepard but who is he decide synthesis is acceptable for ALL organics? That's not what everyone united and was fighting for. This "chance at a new life" is nonsense. Either hybrids become machine-like which is a failure or they still have "free will" which puts us back to square one. Krogan and Salarian are both organics. What's stopping them from warring again after they become hybrids (organic/synthetic) in this "new chance"? In this best ending, Reapers still get what they want. Meanwhile, synthesis marks the end of all of organic life because everything going forward will either be organic/synthetic or all synthetic. Also, can't hybrids with free will still make full synthetics and "chaos" return? (Since the boy is allowed to predict the future in one of his options, I will as well) That leaves room for the possibility of hybrids no longer being acceptable which would mostly like start another cycle. Sounds like another case of synthetics being the problem. Another option has Shepard becoming synthetic so he can control the Reapers. Really? He did all this work just to become one?  Wrong answer! The last option is to kill all synthetics now but eventually (because the boy supposedly knows it all) the same problem or "chaos" will return. This is a slap in the face to organics because it basically says "you can't be trusted or you're incapable of managing yourselves" so let us assume what you will do and what you need. However, this option offers the best ending (among the crap we're left to choose from). Not because Shepard and Anderson lives but because Shepard can do what he came for: to kill/remove the Reaper threat. According to the boy, chaos will return due to our children creating synthetics but as I mentioned before, the boy has been wrong several times before. Also, in accomplishing this defeat, the races of the world can leave behind very detailed and complete instructions as to what to do IF in fact the Reaper cycle comes back, similar to what the Protheans were trying to do.To be clear, all the endings suck because none account for each player's unique experience. Some will argue that leaves too many possibilities for the developers to account for. To that I say that sounds like personal problems. Creating a series stretching across 3 games with the ability to import decisions was THEIR CHOICE. They're the ones said how you play will affect your end. While I applaud the initiative, they chose to take on that challenge. If the challenge became more than they could handle, own up to it. Players simply want what was told to us.Eighth, where are the benefits or penalties of my decisions? Someone that has 0 experience in the first 2 games or a renegade Shepard with no likeability and no race cooperation gets the same ending as someone that solves race conflicts and establishes galactic peace across 3 games? What was the point then? All deaths were in vain including Shepard's. Who cares about Maelon's data? Why did Mordin sacrifice himself to spread the cure if we can't continue living as as is w/o modifications? Why did Shepard fight across 2.75 games to give in to someone else's logic? A logical ending would have posed the boy's options to a renegade player killed squad mates and did nothing to bring about peace. Paragon players should have been able to make the boy adjust his way of thinking since he had been proven wrong. And if wouldn't adjust his thinking, a fight would ensue (see #9). Signs of a crappy ending were written on the wall, I'm sad to admit. I feared this may happen when I saw an option to play w/o making decisions. Why is that even there? How can a decision-based game be played w/o making decisions??!! AND they get the same end as someone who's invested 100+ hours??!! They made this game as if it were a stand-alone in an attempt to cater to newcomers. What about the original and die-hard fans? The only effect importing saves/decisions had was in dialogue. That's just bad business. Some will say that it's more about the journey. To that I say don't make me laugh. Yes, journey is important because you won't care enough to reach an end. However, whenever you start something, the objective is ALWAYS the end. You don't start watching a 5-part mini-series to stop after the 4th part and say "this has been a great journey. I think I'll stop here", do you?Ninth and final, where was the final boss fight? You do all that fighting to reach the end just to pick a multiple choice conclusion (which they claimed they wouldn't do). When is Shepard going to face off against Harbinger (who I respect more than some unknown boy)? Where's the battle of human vs the ultimate machine for all of mankind? Where was the large-scale, epic battle with all the people I recruited? Even ME2 had everyone together in action. At this point, the enemy thresher maw was more useful than the Rachni Queen. Why did I save Wrex in 1 to never be able to use him again? Who cares about guest appearances especially when all the other original crew members are accessible. At this point, I would've rather died in a fight to the death than just roll over and make a decision. Then I'm expected to buy DLC to "further the legend". That's disgusting.A quick note to everyone who thinks they should remake the end: Let it go. Having played through ME1 5 times and ME2 3 times plus all the DLC, I'm just as disgusted by it as many of you are. If you choose to boycott future titles, that's entirely up to you and it would be completely understandable. I say to let it go in regards to ME3's ending because even if they did remake it, we still wouldn't be happy. We're PO and rightfully so. The damage has been and at this point, there's very little they can do to right it. Even if they made a new end, I doubt it would be free, thus having to pay for it would only throw more salt in our wounds.
Read all the other great reviews for this game and you'll get the idea - I love the franchise. The only problem I had with this game was that it just felt way too much like the 2nd one. I also spent too much time trying to do a bunch of side missions, having items that pointed me to planets that I couldn't get to yet, but didn't realize... which was frustrating, flying around for hours looking for something you're not able to find until you progress to a certain part of the story.The UI wasn't as user friendly as before as well. The multiplayer was really fun with friends though! Lots of good strides to make some of your online characters available in the singleplayer game as well, good stuff.
Up front this game is a lot of fun to play. My problem is that on day one they want another 10 bucks for content that was completed and SHOULD have come with the game! Not right to purposely exclude content and make us pay more on day freaking one. I totally get if they want to expand the game as time goes but if you were done with it already then add it in the game and make it as complete as possible. Also, we need to take a stand against the online pass to play these games online. We are already paying for Xbox live, why should we be punished if we were smart enough to buy the game used? If you don't buy the game new then they are just double charging us to play online. Not cool!
The first 2 games were amazing, really showed how a story could be written that shows decisions and consequences, then in the is game we get to pick a color at the end?  Really that was Bioware epic end to this game, don't buy this game nothing but a huge letdown and waste of time.
Only 5 hours in and I've done 1 maybe 2 main quests and plenty of side-quests. In this game the side-quests actually have a purpose and you get to have some "interesting" encounters through them. Don't buy into the whole dlc nonsense some people here are selling. I've yet to here one argument that took into account that the dlc character was a last minute thing that wasn't added to the main game. If it was so important I'm sure I'd get some gap in the understanding of story, something I've yet to see. If you played the demo then you know what to expect gameplay wise. Me personally I didn't pay much attention to any frame rate issues in the demo but even I can tell they polished up the system a bit more. From the first 30 or so minutes into the game you're already making crucial decisions that will affect the rest of the game. Story wise the game grabs you straight after the the first mission. The lively cast of characters are back and they all certainly have their own methods of operations and their own values in this war thus adding a lot more depth to them as individuals. I won't say that if you played ME2 this is for you because to me they honestly feel different somehow. Me personally I didn't play ME1(couldn't really get into it) but loved ME2 and ME3. Hope you all found this helpful.
I didn't really care one way or another about the ending. What bugged me were the countless times I had to control a slow-moving Shepard. So annoying! The dreams, the wounded-Shepard near the end. And that difficulty level spiked tremendously during the finale. Why throw so many Banshees at me? Not fair.Other than those complaints, I found this almost as enjoyable as the last game. I actually miss the resource mining from "Mass Effect 2," even though most found it tedious. Overall, a fun though not-as-involving experience. I'm glad I played.
Yes the ending wasn't the greatest, but the game itself still leaves other games in the dust. Now with DC they fixed some of the questions. But to people who will rate a game 5 star and then say just because an ending didn't agree with them they give it a 1 star are acting like my kids. That's why 3 and 4 stars were invented people.  So here I go giving a 4 star game a 5 star maybe to help off set some bad press. Bioware has always made the best games, I remember playing Baldurs Gate on my old computer.
The game is so good all around! Story, game play (feels like Gears of War mixed with Star Wars), the acting, etc...the ending was awesome too. Except you need to be a lover of philosophy to truly &#34;get it&#34;, and yes I got it! lol I think the people who got upset had no idea what they where looking at so they immediately got upset. But even if your not into games that make you think the action definitely makes up for it.
Yes the end is lacking. However I still enjoyed the overall experience. Starting from ME1 it's interesting seeing how the characters develop and some of the choices in ME1 and ME2 affect ME3. I believe an expansion is coming soon that gives the a better ending for free.
If you have played the entire mass effect series like so many of us have, I cannot imagine a bigger letdown than this, the third and final commander shepard installment.  The gameplay seems to take the worst aspects of the previous 2 and cram them all together in a half-a$$ attempt to apparently do nothing other than bring in a few hundred million dollars of profit and upset a lot of EA gamers.  I could probably sit here and write 2 or 3 pages worth of why this game falls short but I will try to stick to the highlights.-First off, there are not nearly enough carry-overs (as EA promised) from your choices in the first 2 games and the ones that are evident are pretty much limited to dialogue and cutscenes ... so basically you wasted those few hundred hours playing the first 2 mass effects-Secondly, The game is way too straight forward.  There are no hidden missions and barely any side quests that add to the story and help your character (as in the first 2)  The ones that are there often consist of no more than a few lines of dialogue and some coercion rather than a side-plot or mission-And of course (as I'm sure you've read) the ending will make you wish you never wasted one second of your life playing this game.  Without getting into too much detail I will try to explain;  The ending of the game starts out ok, but the choices you are given seem to have literally no effect on the actual ending of the game (and shepard series) and nothing is followed though.  The ending wouldn't be nearly as bad if it just wasn't cut so short.  It really seems like they just didn't care to properly end the game and just put something together off the top of their heads because they didn't feel like putting forth the effort to have a proper ending ...  I realize there are people who say 'you can't please everyone' but i don't think they pleased anyone with the lack of detail and effort they put (or didn't put) into the endingIn short if I hadn't spent god knows how many hours playing the first 2 mass effects and making sure I had all the choices I wanted to go into the final of the trilogy, I probably wouldn't be nearly as upset.  However, I think most people who have played or will play this game DID play the first 2 and it's just inexcusable how lackluster this game is/was.  If you've played the first 2 its almost mandatory to buy this one for some closure if nothing else, but I would say wait until this summer when they release their extended/tweaked ending so you don't experience the same disappointment and anger I did when I finished this game
Like many of the other reviews, I think the ending is goofy.  Not much variation in the 3 choices at the end and it ends with a plot twist that is introduced at the very end that doesn't seem to fit well.  I guess I see the connection with the Geth - Quarian story, but still....Nonetheless, most of the game is really good.  If you liked ME2, you'll like ME3, just anticipate some disappointment in the ending.
When Mass Effect was first released, it felt very much like a BioWare game, a kind of sci-fi shooter RPG that didn't feel too different from previous BioWare efforts while also paying direct homage to the halcyon days of sci-fi cinema, even including a visual film grain filter. It's easy to forget how the series started out, how the gameplay has improved dramatically, how the storytelling has grown more rich, the characters more fleshed-out, as the saga of Commander Shepard has rolled on. And with Mass Effect 3, the trilogy has come to a close, and with the Extended Cut DLC, the series has ended on a powerful and moving note, one which leaves no doubt in my mind that BioWare has crowned their achievement appropriately.After the events of Mass Effect 2, Shepard is effectively grounded until the Reapers show up and start reaping. While it might seem like a rehash of the previous game's approach of rounding up a rogue's gallery of colorful characters, Mass Effect 3 differs in that it's not about putting together a motley crew of heroes and ant-heroes- it's about marshaling the strength of many different sentient races to try to save Earth, and hopefully do what it takes to stop the reapers altogether, to break the cycle of growth and destruction.One can't say too much about the story without spoiling it, and the conclusion is still problematic for those who wanted a more customized ending. That being said, this entire game goes back to what players did in the prior titles. The actions you chose, the decisions you made, impact story elements throughout. Characters who died won't be back, and those who survived add to the missions as they normally would. Past lovers show up and will create some awkward moments for players who have changed their mind over the years. BioWare may have oversold their ability to provide a customized ending, but at the end, there's only so much you can do, and the conclusion is stronger than most games offer.The action gameplay is even more fine-tuned than in Mass Effect 2, and isn't far from genre standards like Gears of War. Powers and special ammo still aren't perfectly suited to the 360 conroller, as players can only map three special moves to hotkeys on the controller, but it's still much better than the first game, where only one move could be mapped at a time. This is also handled well in the cooperative multiplayer mode, where each calss has three items and/or abilities they bring to the fight against waves of opponents. Some of the cover-shooter problems inherent to the genre are here as well, but the attention to detail on what makes a cover shooter fun, namely varied and organic environs coupled with challenging enemies, are present here.BioWare just couldn't leave well enough alone when it came to exploration, however. While the tedious ground exploration levels are completely gone, and mining has been drastically simplified, much of the solar exploration runs afoul of Reapers, who come flocking when the player scans an area of a solar system. It makes for annoying games of cat and mouse that don't do a good job of enticing players to explore the furthest corners of the galaxy, nor do they make much narrative sense.The graphics are wonderful, though similar to Mass Effect 2, and the score is the culmination of the themes brought forth throughout. The seams show sometimes in movement that seems "off" or delayed, but it's all leaps and bounds ahead of the first game in the trilogy, and the sound design, from voice acting to the sound effects, is all top-notch.There are concerns that EA is influencing BioWare's decisions as they continue on, and it remains to be seen how the company will operate going forward, but there's no doubt that Mass Effect 3 caps a tremendous trilogy of games, even with some of the nigglng problems of exploration and expanding paid DLC. Multiplayer has received several free updates with no obvious benefit to EA, however, and it has continued to expand the variety and challenge in this engaging and addictive mode.Once you've beaten the game, and you look back at the entire story, you'll see that BioWare did a good job of delivering a dramatic space action experience that will be hard to top, that they made a tight and engaging experience that still allowed for players to forge their own relationships and allowed them to move on with the consequences of those actions.
Incredible game.  The Ending was a copout.  I never thought an entire beautifully written world could be destroyed in 5 minutes but I'll be damned.
Ok: The ending was slightly disappointing, but it wasn't enough to make me despise this game. This game was an emotional wild ride and had a lot of great story moments. The Gameplay was pretty good, which should take precedent over the ending. Yes, the ending is important, but this game was the best ending to the Mass Effect Trilogy and I enjoyed it all the way through.
The first game was good.  The second game was mediocre and probably one of the most overrated games of all time.  The third one isn't even worth writing about.  Don't waste your time or money.
The story behind this game is great!I hadn't played either of the previous mass effect games and was able to follow basically everything in this game. background knowledge as to the previous stories would help but I don't feel it's necessary.Graphically, this is superb and breathtaking.my main issue, was that it was too long. I played for hours and hours and just got bored with it.i'd rent for the weekend, but not buy, unless I was a huge fan of the series
One of the best games and stories to be played and told. Mass effect is a game series not to be missed on any platform.
I won't get too deep into this review, there's plenty of other reviews that go in depth. I have all three games and this is the best... up until the ending. The ending isn't terrible, but it isn't good either. All-in-all a great series with a great third game and a weak ending.
They dumbed the game down for the shooter enthusiasts which I didn't appreciate. It wasn't like there was a lack of FPS on the Xbox 360. And the ending postively sucked. However, I couldn't give it 2 stars because I'm such a fan of the series.
I have followed Mass Effect from the beginning and remember playing the first like it was yesterday.  Putting that game in for the first time and having my first red ring of death before it got to the start menu.  The characters, the actions I could take, the emotional draw, and of course the people I could sleep with all made for one fantastic series.  I am happy and sad it has come to its end or well Shepards storyline at least from what I have heard.  The series for me has always been love lots of parts and hate a little of others.Anyways I must say I haven't finished the game yet but am at the mission right before and decided to do some side missions.  I have seen the reviews regarding the ending and I am gonna see if that's whats gonna kill this game for me.  From what I have read it almost sounds like an old Twilight Zone episode or some old horror movie from the fifties or sixties but not really sure yet .  I am sure I am gonna beat it real soon but wanted to get my review out of the way before.  The ending from what I have read really doesn't bother me but it does feel like it doesn't sound as epic as the character you have developed.  This game is hard to rate for me and probably one of the hardest one I had to really ponder.The games starting set piece is awesome and I said from the start this is gonna be five stars all the way.  I intentionally read no reviews or anything since the game came out.  This games scope is big but the gameplay feels absolutely small.  I was hoping being it was the last in the series everything would feel like that first set piece but unfortunately it never happened in so far as I have gotten.  The ending could be the big come back but that has yet to be seen.  The game itself felt way to simplified even modding the guns and powers.  Nothing felt like much except the story which is good enough for me to wanna get through it.  There was alot of things I just ran through and others I pondered.  The only thing I did find that was great was the emotional draw since everything was coming to a close things needed to end and people needed to get dead.  That's right get dead.  Be it that kid from the beginning or that guy or girl doing that thing (no spoilers).The thing I loathed this time was there were so many fire fights that seemed set up like any other third person shooter.  If you see cover than odds are you're about to fight.  I saw cover, saw ammo, saw health and that was the set piece quite a bit.  Almost like a Gears of War and less like a Mass Effect.  The rpg elements felt weak and out of all these games I would say the first is my favorite though it was kind of a disaster to organize equipment and all that.  The second streamlined it and the third feels completely useless.  You merely build up your characters traits and nothing more.  I think if I hadn't of built my character I still could of completely beat the game irregardless.Its of course is difficult for a developer to one up the previous games but this one just felt rushed at parts.  My next problem is how you run into people from previous games which is a small problem but kind of a dumb setup.  At first I was like awesome Garrus is back but by the time it happened the third or fourth time I was thinking it was ridiculous.  Surely they could of just had a distress call from an old friend or something like that but instead these people just show up.  Its like a galaxy and a world of people and you run into these people.  Its almost like they didn't want to have individual moments so they just put in quick run in moments with these people.  Some come back for the journey and others don't.  One thing that irritated me also was how no matter my decision in some moments I couldn't save certain characters.Decision making is still there but still in my mind didn't seem like it made that much of a difference at times.  The first two games you could feel the weight of certain decisions more so than this one.  The last games side missions were a lot better than this one as well like one that sticks out is when you land on a planet and everyone is under the influence of this man.  Nothing like that in this one.  Maybe it was more for a sense of urgency for part three, I don't know.  My memory is kind of mixed up about these games since for some reason I thought Shepard had a jet pack and some guy had a sword that was a gun too which I am pretty sure is Farscape.  I can't tell you the exact mission but remember enjoying them a lot more.  I am glad the planet scanning from the last game is gone but this one way over simplifies it and its kind of boring.Don't get me wrong though some decisions are heavy such as a Geth or Quarian dilemma.  That part was one I had to reload my save because I couldn't bear what happens if you choose the wrong one.  The characters of course are the draw and those of us who have followed the game from the start have become attached to them.  Those decisions were the ones that felt heavy which means those that have the fate of squad mates at hand.  This game just felt like I could rush the dialogue with some people and not really miss anything.  Those moments with Thane, Garrus, Miranda, Tali or any of the squad were the ones that really mattered.  Seems like the decision making and the characters were really all that matter in the series or maybe the most important part.The music pieces are phenomenal especially in the moments with that freaking piano music.  It really adds to the impact of whats going on and will almost make me teary eyed.  I have never cried in a game but there were those moments that you could get the emotional impact deeply.I haven't played multiplayer and don's really plan on it but I might give it a try sometime.  I don't like the ability to play online affecting the ending or whatever it does.  I think it just helps out you totals but I am not really sure. I like multiplayer don't get me wrong but I never wanted it in a Mass Effect but I guess it doesn't really change anything its just a nice addition.I have a hard time with completing certain games and usually procrastinate since I have spent so much time in them.  I find myself a little bit depressed when I am done.  I think I will feel that way at the end of this one when all is said and done after spending so much time with these characters and finally seeing it over is gonna be tough.  I am not an overly sensitive person by any means but this is how my brain works for some reason.  Be it a good or bad ending I will be sad to see the trilogy over.I must say three stars still since the gameplay is o.k. but the story is great and its worth playing and seeing it through.  I might buy the trilogy later since I don't own any of them but have always rented.  For all the bad I might of pointed out the game is overall still very good and I am gonna miss it when its over.  This game has been a joy as far as I care and it has its up and downs like most games but its been a good overall experience.I will update this after the ending and see if it changes my rating or not.UPDATE AFTER MY COMPLETE PLAYTHROUGH.....SPOILERS  Still not terrible but loses one star for emotional distress.Oh my goodness, I will say I was fine with Shepard dying and giving his life for the galaxy.  The final set piece of fighting on Earth was somewhat boring and not well implemented.  Fighting just the same enemies that made it feel more like horde mode than anything.  Out of every gun fight in the game the last Earth well London fight was my least favorite until Shepard takes on the Reaper and everyone gets vaporized.  I have no clue if my squad died or not since it doesn't show anything just Shepard waking up bloodied with bodies around him.  My guess they all just stood at the top of the hill and watched me run like a maniac.  I think they could of made it more explosive and exciting and quite a bit more fulfilling.  In comparison the endings to the first two were better in my eyes. In fact there were more enjoyable levels in any of the games.  The earth level was just a let down.  I did enjoy the fact of saying goodbyes and the such to your old pals.  I thought my relationship with Garrus in this game was almost brotherly and my love interest Tali made me wish my character survives it all.Oh yeah I never played any multiplayer since I merely rented this game didn't want to buy the game pass.  Most of the time it will give you a trial but nope not this time.  I couldn't max out my assets or anything but still almost got a whole green bar.So when you reach the Citadel thats basically it for the action besides the interaction with the Illusive man that kind of dragged on until the ending.  It was kind of helpful in the advancing of the story but than the Illusive man goes into a "no one tells me what to do" childlike sentence.  I chose my choosing and wrapped up the Illusive mans story for him and made my way to my final destination after my talk with the Crucible.  I liked that piano piece of music in this game and the emotion drained out of me.  I didn't cry but I could feel the impact.  You kind of have a flashback of old friends and I wish they had drawn that out more.  I think Shepard dying is fine with me but what happens after the Mass Relays explode gets on my nerves and rubs me the wrong way like single ply toilet paper.The issue I take the most is the fact that as far as my other squad mates there is no full closure.  Once Shepard dies in whichever way you choose you have a brief few minutes of a ending and a crash landing which based upon your stats decides if anyone survives.  That was my rub first since how the heck were they all on that ship since I just saw Tali and Garrus in London but they were on board that ship with Joker.  Either way you go the relays are gone so everyone is basically stranded and you got yourself a dead Shepard.  Unless you get that perfect ending or whatever that rumor is floating around.  The one where Shepard lives.  Your crew of whoever I think you were choosing the most during gameplay walks out of the ship.Worst of all when your friends are coming out of the plane (for me anyways) out comes Joker than Tali and than Garrus.  I was like even if I survived my love interest is now far away anyways.  When I saw Joker look over at Tali with a smile on his face I wanted to destroy him (I got EDI killed as far as I know).  I know what he's up to.  I thought I want Shepard dead anyways since he won't be with his best friend and gal.  Now that I know Tali isn't a freakish alien faced woman I cared more for her.  I can only hope she is pregnant with the now dead Shepards kid and hates everyone because of my fate.I thought it would be fun if Joker comes out and you see like dinosaurs walking around them as if they landed on a prehistoric planet.  Then Garrus comes out and say's "here we go again".  They then all start laughing and its freezes like a eighties show.  Least that way I could of felt better about the ending.  Play on my nostalgic childhood to win me over.Alright seriously I understand what all the fuss on the endings is about now and it really didn't feel like justice to a game that's consumed so many people.  Engrossed in a world and then its over relatively fast and the sense of closure disappears.  Seems to me the ending would be the most delicate part of the series that would of taken a good amount of time to get through.  I was looking forward to this after Shepards fate type moment but never got it.  It almost feels like you made choices in every game but in the end they really don't matter.  The decisions I have made from the first game no longer mattered.  In conclusion I will go half and half on the ending.  Love and hate.  Teenager and old people.  Dogs and cats.  Me and my neighbor who hates me.
If you're a completionist like me whose gone all nerd and bought the guidebook so you won't miss one thing on each planet, then you're probably in for about 40+ hours of gameplay. About 39 of them are wonderful, full of the stellar storytelling and voice acting we're used to from the ME series. Then the 40th hr strikes and things take a downhill turn very quickly. If you're good enough to have avoided spoilers to this point, I won't be the one to ruin it for you, but needless to say, it's an ending of the epic-failure sort that will be remembered as a bad taste in the mouth of gamers everywhere for a long, long time.Why do I give it 4 stars if the ending was so bad?Most of the rest of the game was decent. I enjoyed the majority of the side missions. The planet scanning thing was much less painful than its predecessors. The music was still lovely. There's much to like about this game.Conclusion: If you loved the first two, see the story to the end.
I highly recommend playing the entire trilogy from beginning to end.  Very few games succeed in story, character development, and action/adventure to the level that Bioware has achieved with Mass Effect 1, 2, and 3.  I know many players are less than satisfied with the ending of ME3, but I was completely fine with it.  I also recommend downloading as many of the DLCs as possible for each game - for ME3 it is a must; especially the Extended Cut, which expands upon the ending and brings a bit more clarity to consequences of your final choices.  Enjoy the 45-50 hrs of gameplay!
Its so hard to rate this game because it is AWESOME until the last like 10 minutes, then it goes completely downhill.Without spoiling it I am going to say this, your choices mean ABSOLUTELY NOTHING, which totally flies against the whole point of the mass effect experience. If your Shepard is an angel or complete douche-bag it doesn't matter, you get the same three choices at the end of the game no matter what! Additional complaints are as follows:1. If you have a character that you made from ME 1 and imported to two, then you'll love the fact that you CANNOT import that same face into three. Apparently, the geniuses who made this game took into account the fact that they had to make it compatible with ME2, with respect to transferring your face, but overlooked that some real fans, such as myself, have had a character that they made all the way from ME1 and did NOT make faces of ME1 compatible. As such, you have to make your face all over again.2. What happened to the third/neutral/middle option? ME1 and ME2 usually had three possible choices, a paragon, a renegade, and then a middle ground, which was always my favorite cause I'm a middle/non-extremes kind of guy. The middle option is GONE! Every choice is either renegade or paragon, which is absolutely ridiculous!3. The Ninja character from Cerberus is just such a walking cliche (I forget his name). You can tell he was also made to cater to this generation of gamers who like over-the-top martial arts kind of characters that do things you would never see in real combat. One of the cool things about ME1 and 2 was that it was more of a realistic rendition of the future where people used guns and no one used swords, like in Star Wars, which is just absurd (I want to see someone go to Iraq with just a sword and see how long they last). ME3 went against this more realistic combat by making this clown of a character.So there you have it, AWESOME gameplay, and great story RIGHT UP UNTIL THE END. However, the ending is so bad that I am afraid it destroys the entire franchise...
Like many others, I loved the game until the endings.  I've played and enjoyed ME1 and ME2 for years, and would recommend both.  ME3 had a lot of good points, graphics, game play some of the characters were outstanding, Jack was amazing, having my team from ME 1 show up and having characters from ME2 involved was enjoyable.  Then you come to the possible endings, and all are depressing.One play though works, maybe two, but it's not a game you want if you enjoy a lot of replaying or want some kind of "we beat the evil and survived with some of our friends and loved one to build a future".  Unless you like depressing, think twice.  There is very little hope in this game. Maybe there will be a "broken steel" in the future, but until then don't be surprised if you only play it once or twice and are depressed for some time after.There are other small problems that will bother some and the reviews give those, but the lack of a hopeful future is what takes it down for me.This is an update to my review.  BW did a few things to try and "fix" the problem which for me did not help enough to play all of my carryover Shepards from the previous games though there are others who found the EC very helpful.But if you have never played the other 2 games, ME3 works pretty good.  It's been over a year and I just played the game as if I had never seen ME1 or 2.  It's not "My" Shepard it's theirs and I've enjoyed the game.  Not really enough to replay it because the choices don't change but it is much better as a single game and not the ending of a trilogy.  imo
I must say I was so looking forward to this game after enjoying the previous two,especially the first game,I don't care to much about combat as I prefer the story and making different decisions that change things and I like running around exploring,talking to people and enjoying the view,when I first heard this game was going to feature multi-player I wasn't happy,but then heard that the last game in the trilogy would be a combination of the first two so decided to buy it and see for myself,well the game isn't bad at times and a few missions are quite good,but seams smaller in scope than the previous two and less fulfilling than the first game,I hate how there are less places to visit and planets to explore,but the dialogue seems less than before and the graphics are pretty bad at times,but it's the fact that your decisions make no difference to what happens so it no-longer matters what you do,then there is that awfully stupid ending that gave me no closer at all and made no sense, also I hate the sexual innuendoes and come ons which can be hard to avoid, I think Bioware has changed the game so much to appeal to it's new target audience the FPS crowd and pubescent teenagers they are dismissing it's loyal fans of the past by making a more action orientated game rather than a pure RPG,personally I think they should at least fix this game with a different ending add more dialogue options,allow you to re recruit a few former allies and to see more returning npc's,also please bring back a ground vehicle and more missions,this game is very short and was over before I knew it,personally I think had they not included the multi-player element or the kinect component they would have had more time to finnish it off,instead they released a game that isn't really mass effect enough and I hope they do something about rectifying it.
I've read through almost all of the reviews here. Thank you, all, for the feedback. I don't want to play this game anymore. I'm near the end now and based on what everyone is saying about the ending, it's all too grim for me. I feel like I've invested emotionally in this game over several years (and that was so obviously intentional by the game design of the customizable lead character) and I don't want to go through a depressing end to a series. Hallucination or not, I'm not in the mood to deal with another "Xena" ending. I'll just have to stop where I am and create my own ending in my head! :(
This final installment puts you on a desperate, inexorable path towards total destruction. The 'War is Hell' theme runs deep throughout the story and stays that way until the bitter end. This isn't about reclaiming the Galaxy - it is about sailing through space with other guys (I'm flattered, Kaiden and Mr Bus Driver; but, No Thanks). All things considered, I believe that the story played out nicely. Life/Death is about your choices and actions in the face of overwhelming odds. Being a soldier in ME was never about starting a family and settling down. It was about staring death in the eye and going where others feared to tread.
The ambiguity of it all I think speaks to the narrative of the entire ME series.  The gameplay is amazing, simply amazing.  The themes touched on builds the characters in effective ways.  The conversation with the downed reaper is one of my favorite moment in a video game.  I felt like the character development in ME2 was stronger, but Shepherd as a character does a significant amount of changing throughout this game.  While still not a complete grey area in the morality category - the question of choice is explored in dialogue and in gameplay.  So while this game does not have as many character home runs (Miranda, Jack, Grunt, Thane vs. Javik, EDI, Liara 2, Ashley 2) the development in Shepherd and the gameplay picks up that slack.  I feel like the negative comments result from a fundamental misunderstanding about this story and about what this game is.  Could they have thrown all their weight to artistic integrity?  Sure, but they did not totally do it and there are some faulty/over-commercialized elements to the game.  As a game and as a conclusion to the series ME3 is brilliant.  ME has officially become my favorite game trilogy.  My hope is that this game will become a cannon to other games that come after it - even as 'mainstream' as it has become.  And to all the reviews which write off the ending as disappointing at best... well, there is at least one gamer who loves the "ending."  Granted, I truly understand the concerns about the plot holes, lack of true choice, weak introduction of new 'bad guy' character, character breakdowns, and unsatisfactory revelation/ending.  Well... it does kind of make me mad - my hope is that the DLCs will bring something better to the table.  4/5 stars - ending took away one... sorry I guess I am just like everyone else.
Some bad in this games is the finish .I expect some more like the last games of mass effect but is a good game.
Just wanted to add this link. Interesting discussion and well worth the listen. Also, head over to fanfiction.net for closure.  Enjoy:  [...]Okay, so I slept on it and woke with the same empty gut feeling I had last night. The ending of ME3 was just plain bad story telling. Cheap and lazy story telling. They robbed us of a story ending which we had been building for years. Every single one of us invested time, emotion and identity into "our" Shepard. We were robbed. Whether or not Shepard had a romantic happy ending with Liara/Tali or spent the rest of his days in a bar with Garrus and Grunt picking fights and telling war stories should have been our choice. We worked for it, but we didn't get our payoff.So to add more review to my rant here... Graphics: I thought my XBox was failing. We are well past excusing poor graphics. That was just messy. Story Line: ME2 warned us that our decisions would play out in ME3. It just doesn't happen. Instead we get some cobbled together plot line. I got the feeling as the credits rolled that the writers had run out of coffee, it was midnight and one of them said, geez my wife is gonna kill me if I don't get home. So they jumped the shark and the loyal fans got crap. You can only say "Everyone is getting wiped out" so many times before it becomes meaningless filler. There really was no way for anyone to beat the Reapers. So in order to make a credible conclusion someone or something should have stepped in to save us. That would have given EA a plot point for continuing the series in another form. A good story has a beginning a middle and an end. We have no ending. Come to think of it the ending completely eliminates the "Hero Journey" storyline. Which was working... until the ending of ME 3.~~~~~~~~~AND I AM NOT HAPPY! But apparently it can be made right. I purposefully avoided reading anything about the outcome or the game play. But now I know I can fix it.On the other hand, I enjoyed the game very much. I liked the fighting and the weapons upgrades. Not having to mine planets anymore was a much appreciated touch. The dialogue was both hilarious and heartbreaking. I've been a gamer for many years now. I've been Master Chief, a drop ship trooper, cheered my team on as Nobel 6. I raid in World of Warcraft, played all the F.E.A.R. games and I just finished Skyrim. You get the picture. But I have never, ever played a video game which had me on the edge of my seat with tears dripping down my cheeks or clutching the controller with an idiot grin plastered on my face watching a cut scene.So purchase the game and sit down for a nice immersive game.Spoiler Alert:You have been warned...The dog was lameWay too many characters died. Why? Lazy story telling?Why were some of the minor characters so simply drawn? Traynor was practically an Anime drawing and Kelly Chambers looked almost nothing like she did in ME2. Even Miranda looked washed out. I wonder why?
I love this mass effect chapter. 24 hour game for those who likes to play 1-2 hours a day. have a lot of alternative missions that give your extra gaming time and relax or just for walk around.
So lets be frank, EA is the devil.Setting that aside let's look at the game itself.  I love the Mass effect story, its a rich and vibrant universe, that stands out in the Sci Fi genre.  EA s*** on it a little bit in the later games but again, I'm setting that aside.  I'm going to rate the game on certain aspects:1) As a Shooter:5.5/10:  Very generic third person shooter, well made but brings nothing worth mentioning to the table other than exploding heads with headshots2) As an RPG:4.5/10: hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha, they basically just put an RPG skin on a shooter, but it still has some of the basic clothes you'd expect an RPG to wear, support casters, tanks, damage dealers, etc...3) As a Game:2 (if you dont buy the DLC): story is pretty good with a s*** ending and you're about as satisfied as masterbating to a tomato6 (if you got all the DLC): I honestly would have paid 60$ for the citadel DLC and Javek alone and 10 buck for the rest of this game...if you've been playing ME the whole way through citadel is what you really care about....God I hope EA doesn't read that cause then the next game they release will just be that by itself...Overall I'll give it 3 stars, mediocre RPG, mechanically sound shooter, and it continued a universe that I've loved for years.
I feel sad that this game, out of almost 900 reviews so far, has an average 2 star rating. People are entitled to their opinions, but I feel that BioWare is such an awesome company and deserves more credit. But onto my own review:Storyline: I found it very interesting...it was very intense, very emotional, and very intriguing. And to address the ending...I didn't love it, but only because it was sad. And I can't insult something just because it makes me sad anyway. I can't get into it and this isn't a debate site, but I was still okay with the endings, and I was interested in the story the whole time. I liked the new characters, enjoyed seeing the old. I wish there had been more romantic interactions between my character and her lover but it's not up to me.Music: Oh man, what a treat! The music was so great and thrilling. I would love to have a soundtrack of this game.Multiplayer: I find it very fun. In order to get better characters and guns, you have to play enough games to buy Recruit/Veteran/Spectre packs which may or may not contain something new and good. It's repetitive doing the same type of mission over and over, just with different enemies or maps, but I like it a lot anyway. It's like zombies in COD where you really have to stay alive as not to burden your team mates.Graphics: I have been spoiled by COD games, Halo Reach, and Skyrim, so no the graphics aren't as good as those. However, it is still a stunning, beautiful game.Replayability: Definitely will play this a few times to make different choices.Summary: This is a great game. It's fun, it's interesting, it's emotional, and very well done. I really hope people won't hate the entire series just because of the ending...
For background, I've been playing Bioware RPG's ever since Baldur's Gate I and II on the PC. I have loved a lot of games with the Bioware label except for Knights of the Old Republic II and Dragon Age II.[Good]Combat: The FPS portion has gotten better again. It's even closer stuff like Gears of War now, which is a good thing.Past Consequences: Almost everything you've done in the past 2 games has consequences in Mass Effect 3 beyond just getting a stupid email. For example a certain government official will be assassinated unless you saved at least one of two characters in the past games. There are a lot more examples. I'm glad they listened on this point. Playing the past 2 Mass Effects has value. I don't know of any other game series that does this. This is a great achievement. (More on this in the 'Bad' section.)On a related note, if you bought the DLC that replaces Mass Effect 1, you're still missing out. That DLC only accounts for major decisions. This only sucks if you're a PS3 owner.Inventory: They basically made inventory management way better without throwing it out like they did in Mass Effect 2.Story: As everyone else has already said, the game's story up until the end is both interesting and engaging with a lot of cameos from past decisions as well a good variety. More on this in the 'Bad' section.Loading time: One of the major reasons they changed the layout of the Citadel and the Normandy is to make loading faster. Compared to the first and even 2nd Mass Effect, loading times are just awesome. It is just great.Replay-ability: Not even counting the so so multiplayer add-on, this game makes the entire Mass Effect series re-playable. A lot of decisions you've made in the games, even from the 1st one matter, and they make subtle changes to the story. There are so many changes and variants, that I don't feel a single player can hit all of them on even 10 complete play throughs. More on this in the 'Bad' section.Bugs: For 360, this game is nearly bug free compared to other releases like Fallout games. More on this in the bad section.[Bad]Past Consequences (or lack of): There are few major decisions that didn't seem to have an effect on Mass Effect 3's world. Whoever you chose as the human representative for the Citadel council will probably not reflect who that person is in Mass Effect 3 (unless you were a Renegade in Mass Effect 1). It's a minor annoyance, but I think most people can get over it. My guess for this is because there wasn't a Mass Effect 1 for PS3 and it would add cost to making the game as well as story complexity. Also depending on who you ultimately chose as a love interest, you may or may not feel cheated (Hint: if it's not a main character in Mass Effect 3, you're probably not going to be happy once you see what they did for the main characters.)--- SPOILER START ---Regardless with how you feel about Cerberus from Mass Effect 2, you'll be fighting them in Mass Effect 3 which is a little stupid to me especially if you play as a Renegade. As a Renegade, everything Cerberus does makes total sense. Of course, I realize that everyone has budget. It would be nice to see DLC that lets you side with Cerberus. I will pay as much as what Rockstar charged for their GTA: IV DLC, maybe even more to see this happen.--- SPOILER END ---Conversations: I really hated the conversations with Kasumi and Zaeed in Mass Effect 2 where they never entered a conversation cut scene. They added even more of these in Mass Effect 3. It's just horrible. In a lot of cases this involves picking up new missions. So instead of talking to people, Shepard just eavesdrops on conversations like a weirdo creeper to acquire a minor mission. This is one of the most stupid decisions made that just cheapens the game.Story: Yes this is about the ending. What people like Mass Effect 3's director, Casey Hudson, and head writer, Mac Walters, have chosen to forget is that Mass Effect is not a movie or an art house game like Braid. Mass Effect is a world that gives mainstream players choices that greatly affect that world. No one beside Ebert cares about metaphor and symbolism in a game that has the feel of Star Wars or Lord of the Rings. Bioware is not Rockstar Games, and changing direction was just stupid. Without any spoilers, the ending essentially gives you several bad variants of the same choice which doesn't seem to be based on anything you've done so far. The explanation doesn't even make any sense unless you bend the words. To add insult to injury, they just show the same cinematic albeit in different colored explosions. The worse part is that the endings greatly change the universe of Mass Effect. They don't even give you a summary conclusion like Fallout New Vegas or Bioware's Baldur's Gate series. They would have gotten away with a few paragraphs of a narrated post conclusion summary before. Now they're going to have to come up with something way better to placate a lot of angry people. I would say the only people who are NOT either annoyed or disappointed with the ending are people who just picked up the Mass Effect series at its 3rd installment, and people who have some personal or professional connection to the developers and EA for obvious reasons.--- SPOILER START ---In my opinion, I don't understand why one of the last choices is essentially what Cerberus was fighting for. Why not join them from the beginning then, instead of fighting them at every turn? It's just bad writing. There really should only be two choices.Also as per the Reaper god child's explanation for why they wipe out civilizations, it only makes sense IF the Reapers were the original creators of advanced organic life, since "the created will always eventually rebel against their creators". Other than that it's stupid. "Robots will always eventually rebel against and exterminate their their slave master organic creators, so to keep this from happening, we (the older more powerful robots) will wipe out their slave master organic creators for them." This is just retarded.--- SPOILER END ---My guess as to why the ending sucked is because they chose to work on an included multiplayer game instead, and they just ran out of both time, money, and disc space. I'm pretty sure that they were dead set on keeping it limited to two DVDs max. According to rumor, this was something that the head director and head writer came up by themselves without any input what so ever from the rest of the writing team. My guess is that since they missed the last xmas deadline and they were already way over budget, they just came up with this crap to get the game to release. This game would have been better if they kept developing it for a fall 2012 release.I've heard apologists from various game publications complain about Mass Effect fans' sense of entitlement. I'll tell you why Mass Effect fans should feel entitled. Not only have they spent 100's of hours through all 3 games, but they have also spent approximately $100 for each of the past 2 games + DLC. That's about $200 for the past two Mass Effects and DLC + $70 for the third Mass Effect and DLC. This is why people feel both entitled and angry.Nickel and Dime'ing: I don't feel that anyone should have been charged for day one DLC when it's pretty apparently that it was originally slated to have been part of the game. (Just charge more upfront at the very least.) I also don't feel that customers should be charged for a DLC to fix the ending. That being said, it'll probably be like Mass Effect 2 where eventually there will be $50 or more worth of new DLC (excluding the weapon and item packs). It's not our fault someone decided to lose focus on the single player campaign for a so so multiplayer component. That being said, as in previous installments, Mass Effect 3 is only a complete game when you buy all the DLC.Bugs: Some missions are buggy and they can't be completed. However, the game is relatively bug free compared to Fallout New Vegas or even Fallout 3. Mass Effect 3 is very playable. It is still annoying not being able to complete some missions though.Replay-ability: The ending kills replay-ability. It makes people ask 'what's the point?'[Misc]Multiplayer is decent, but I don't think it's as good as the Gears of War series. They should have spent more money and time on the single player experience. I strongly feel this is the real reason that the single player game suffered, including its storyline. The multiplayer component should not have been included with the main game. It should have been sold and shipped separately. The writers were probably forced to work around this issue, hence the crappy ending. EA rushed Mass Effect 3 team. You would think they would learn after Dragon Age 2. Of course I know why they put in multiplayer. They wanted to discourage both used game sales as well as pirating.[Conclusion]If you can wait, I would wait until this game drops to $40 and bug fixes and story fixing DLC is released. Ideally, I'd just wait until all the DLC is released and the game drops to $30 (You'll still be spending close to $80 at that point but you won't be frustrated).Since Bioware the company and studio are both defunct, and the name just represents a sticker (or using EA's speak, a label) that any EA studio can tack onto their games, this is probably the last game with the Bioware sticker that I'll be buying. I'm just glad that they didn't completely 'Dragon Age 2'd (or more accurately 'EA'd) the Mass Effect series... yet. I don't feel that any of this stuff would be happening if Bioware's founders didn't sell out to EA or another big publisher like Ubisoft or Activision. I don't blame them though, the money was probably pretty good. I just hope once the gold handcuffs are off that the Bioware founders and other former Bioware members jump ship and form a new studio that doesn't have to cater to public quarterly earnings pressures.
While the first game was expansive and buggy, the second game streamlined the process a bit while still keeping plenty of side quests and a sense of adventure.  This time out the game starts off promisingly with the invasion of Earth, but is streamlined to the point where the only thing that's left is the combat.  And believe me, towards the end of the game it' becomes tiresome and repetitive.  I eventually switched to the easiest setting just so I could go ahead and finish the game.  A real letdown.
Its pretty sad when you rate a game 1 star just cause you didn't like the ending and ruining it for other people who come here to see reviews to see if they should get the game.Its childish and immature..If you enjoyed mass effect 2 you will more than likely enjoy this one to. The game has improved shooting in it, and if you enjoyed the storyline you will enjoy this to. The ending isn't amazing but you shouldn't let 5 mins. of the game ruin it for you.
Writing a review of Mass Effect 3 is like writing an opinion on abortion. The emotions run extremely high with this game. And that in and of itself indicates how much people care about the characters and plots.I've been reviewing video games since the days of Adventure and Zork, and of course there have been many atrocious games along the way. People who play atrocious games tend to be fairly blase about it. "Yes it sucks. Move on." However, with Mass Effect 3 it is an entirely different set of emotion. The emotions here are more along the lines of "I adored my character. I invested hundreds of hours into carefully crafting his life, his moral choices, and the people he fell in love with. And then THIS!!!"I think it's important to realize how powerful this situation is. Only a mere ten years ago people would argue that video games could not capture the emotion. They would argue that there was no way to connect with a video game. We have proven here, in 2012, that absolutely a video game can be FAR more immersive than a movie or a novel. With a video game you become invested in the story, you help craft the path, and you emotionally connect with the characters.Think of all the areas that Mass Effect 3 opened horizons. It offered heterosexual and homosexual relationships and most people didn't blink an eye. It offered a range of ethnicities and hardly a word was spoke about it. Moral choices were presented, and people made their decisions. People cared.So I think it absolutely should then be expected that these years of investment, these weeks of time and emotion and energy should have a pay-off at the end. Yes, gamers paid the $x amount for the game - but that is trivial compared with the investment of their time and energy. They expect, after all of that, that what they did mattered.And, in the end, it didn't.The summation of the game - as undoubtedly the vast majority of gamers know by now - is completely independent of what the gamer chose to do. Relationship choices didn't matter. Alliance choices didn't matter. Morals, good, or bad, or ugly, didn't matter. The game makers simply pulled with a razor and ended the story.There are some gamers who posit that this shouldn't matter. Oh well. It was a noble end. We should be satisfied.But again, this is not about a movie we watched for 90 minutes while munching popcorn. It was an investment. If you were in a five year relationship with a partner, where you lived with them, cared for them, and made a focused effort to make things work, would you be content with a five minute razor-blade slicing off of the relationship? How would that ever be considered adequate? And, once your partner had done that to you, would you say to yourself, "Oh well, they were nice to me before"?Absolutely I feel strongly that the way one closes a relationship is one of the most important, powerful things a person in a relationship can do. I feel BioWare failed in this act - and by doing so they tainted all that came before.Ask any woman or man who has been through a nasty divorce what they remember. Is it the few years of joy - or is it the way they were treated at the end.For those who didn't mind the ending at all, I'm not sure what to say. If someone was in a five year marriage and they don't really mind that their partner cheated on them nastily and laughed as they ran off with the money - what does that say about the person's emotional investment in that relationship?I purchased this game with my own funds for the purpose of doing this review.
Some have totally dismissed the entire Mass Effect trilogy because of the bad ending of ME 3, but I will not. ME and ME2 are just too good to commit that crime.  I did discover that the online multiplayer in ME 3 was better than I expected so I will do more of that to help me forget about the unsatisfying conclusion to the best game series ever.  It will be interesting to see what they will do for a downloadable content after all of the INTENSE fan pressure to fix that dreadful ending.
There are lots of angry fans here over the ending of an excellent game. Sure the game had a few minor issues like gaps in the story that were left un-answered, but the journey from A to Z was immersive, emotional, and most of all Fun.Seriously, who didn't see the game ending like this? From the moment Joker salutes you near the end, I knew for sure. Anyone who read the books could probably predict this ending as well. This is not a Disney movie where you get the girl and live happily ever after. The only thing that got to me is the fact that my previous decisions seemed to have no impact other than to open up a few more dialog wheels. Overall Great game that missed its core fanbase wishes.*UPDATE*Multiplayer: I had low expectations about this. Boy was I surprised! I actually got hooked after saying what a waste of time it would be. There are rarely any framerate issues and the co-op is quite competitive.The reward packages you can buy with the credits you earn can have you saying "just one more match" for hours. My only real complaint are the people who "rage quit" a match because they don't get enough kills.You'll only get better by leveling your overall rank and by getting better equipment. Quitting a match midway through gets you nothing.
Another great Mass Effect game. Full of atmosphere and impeccably written. This one seems to be the pinnacle of the three. The control system is even tighter than the improvements they made in '2', it looks great and the voice acting is perfect. If you liked the first two, don't let the negative reviews put you off, this is a great game.
the fact that this many people are mad about the ending is a tribute to this games greatness. yes the ending came out of no where but this is more than likley the best trilogy ever. my biggest pet peeve is no option at the ending and above all joker gets blown up flying away from battle. joker would NEVER leave shepard ever!
I'm going to get it out of the way: I am trying to rate this game on its own merits, not in direct comparison to the value of the other 2, or the endings in Dragon Age, or how I feel about Multiplayer games or day 1 DLC. I avoided as many spoilers as I could going in, and I did enjoy playing it.Presentation: This game could have used an insert for the kinect commands and control scheme at the very least,if not a full instruction book to explain the multiplayer functions and so forth. Not including one except "on disc" was lazy. Boo. Packaging was nice.Disk Swapping: Annoying,but a neccesary evil. Compared to the minimal swaps last time around, I got a little suprised by the "more frequent" swaps this time. I handwaved it off since there wasn't really a clear transition point in this game.Control: Play control felt decent enough. Mostly the same scheme from ME2, with a few tweaks for cover, melee combat, and so forth. Fairly intuitive.Graphics and Sound are overall pretty strong. I had some dialogue buried under the ambients a few times,regardless of sound settings.Multiplayer: Decent,but nothing really amazing; Horde mode with some objectives every few waves. I can see it being played hard for launch,and then just tapering off. As an optional mode, it doesn't really distract or damage the solo play in my opinion. I do find the different mechanic for weapon switching (for example) slightly annoying since MP characters dont get a pause wheel.Story: Overall, the story does not feel as "plotted" as the earlier incarnations. While this is a common trait in trilogies, Me3 does stumble a few times with some head scratching choices and ramifications- like my "paragon" choice of 'stopping' a companion by immediately killing him/her/it on the spot, or the way the narrative 'cheats' around a particular choice from the earlier game. The Rachni Queen for example, I killed her way back in Me1 and exterminated the race,but the Rachni are now included due to a "false queen" breeder, and had I spared them? Same thing happens anyways. It feels like a deliberate backdoor instead of giving me something different for my choices,and a lot like how DA2 played out. Contrasting these annoyances are some of the most impactive RP moments in a long time (i.e. Mordin on Tuchanka). So,while overall, I liked it,but it wasn't the mostly seamless ME>ME2 transition, and it focused so much on the BIG EPIC STORY that it was very easy to lose the overall momentum of the characters, especially when the previous game was very tightly plotted and character driven. About 20,000 vocal people on the internet hate the endings for thematic,style, or continuity reasons, I liked mine,but I do wish there were more direct differences between the 16 or so endings and a little less subtle nuance. This is the closing chapter, all bets should be off.Kinect Functionality: Kinect voice commands were more accurate than in Halo Anniversary, however in areas with mass combat and a lot of ambient noise (like the final rush on earth),sometimes my surround sound would "drown" out my voice commands. A non-issue when I used my stereo headphones, but still something to consider, even with a tv top mounted kinect and a below tv stereo bar.Achievements are simple enough, with none of the goodies the first game gave you (like ingame perks or gamerpics), but there are 2 avatar awards that are easily gained.Overall, I found it a good game that I enjoyed even if it's not my personal favorite of the run. I don't know realistically if anything was going to surpass the standard ME2 put out there for me, but it didn't feel like the cash grab Dragon Age 2 did. A good effort that didn't always hit the mark with me, but not the blatant crap I kept hearing about 3 weeks before the game launched.
I've played through and beat both ME and ME2 and could not wait to get my hands on this game.Bioware has adjusted things once again in terms of other planet visiting, which was easily the biggest drag in ME2 and I'm thankful it's been changed.The story is epic and the characters are memorable.I had no issues with importing my previous characters.The multiplayer may not be as great as games like GoW3 but it really does add a bit of a changeup and fun.Sorry for the short review but everyone has covered this so well.Buy it and dont regret it!
MASS EFFECT 3 Review(Originally posted March 19, 2012. Re-posted August 19, 2012.)Okay, so there are more than enough reviews on here that complain about the ending. I won't do that (much), and will just give you the nitty-gritty.Millions-year-old machine gods called the Reapers wipe out advanced life in the galaxy every fifty millennia and our time is due. It's up to Commander Shepard and his team of space-faring soldiers to put an end to a millions-year-old cycle of death and destruction, once and for all. This will mean uniting entire civilizations and putting to end hundreds-year-long wars in order to bring about the intergalactic unity needed to take out such an unimaginable threat. Can Shepard pull it off?PROS:- Fantastic story (up until the ending).- Emotion provoking characters.- Characters move around the Normandy and interact and engage with other teammates more often.- Excellent dialogue, along with many funny characters and jokes.- Engaging gameplay.- Expanded RPG elements.- Expanded weapons and customization.- Expanded military class elements.- More detailed side missions.- Money/Credits is abundant enough where you can get everything you need without ever feeling like you're always poor.- Planet Scanning was cut back to be less boring and not slow down the story as much.- Explore many alien homeworlds.- New character models, like female Krogan and Salarians.CONS:- Grenades.Grenades are the biggest hinderance in this game! Your own do absolutely nothing, while enemies' will cause the most deaths of you! And unlike EVERY other shooter game, you CANNOT pick up grenades and throw them back! You MUST move out the way or die. And moving out the blast radius will likely put you in the crossfire of enemies, allowing you to die just as easily. Essentially, it's either Death by Grenade or Death by Gunfire. The Grenade Spam is SO annoying!- The cover system is obtrusive.Whenever you're trying to dodge out of a grenade's way, you'll either take cover on something (while still being in the blast radius, causing you to die) or be unable to free yourself from cover at all until it's too late. When you NEED cover, it rarely works efficently. The 'Not Being Able To Throw Back Grenades' problem would make this an otherwise minor issue.- Terrain issues.Bumpy terrain is constantly getting in the way, causing you to die needlessly or not hop over obstacles. ESPECIALLY when you need to dodge out the way or avoid a grenade blast. This is especially noticible on the London missions towards the end because the battlefield is damaged.- You can't configure your squad's powers unless you begin a mission.It'd be nice to just be able to do this on the Normandy, instead of having to wait until the next mission just to upgrade EDI or Garrus or give them new weapon mods.- Graphical glitches.Especially noticable with characters on the "Ex-Cerberus Scientists" mission. Jacob will usually be talking to an invisible squadmate.- Character importer is defective. Your imported Shepard won't look the way they used to, before, at all.- No more Neutral options in dialogues. Only Paragon (friendly) and Renegade (aggressive) choices.- The game is kind of short. It'll take about 48 hours total to complete, as oppossed to the usual 72 hours it'd take to beat a game this size. There's also less side missions involving actual locations and battlefields.- The in-game Journal, which keeps track of your mission progress, is muddled, and confusing. Also, why couldn't the War Assets just be in your pause menu?- No more stations to explore besides the Citadel. They give you six floors on it, which is a plus, but it's still lame.- Some side objectives are glitched or just executed badly.This makes it very possible to not be able to complete the goals needed for them. Such as talking to someone on the Citadel who needs you to get something from a planet you just came from and will no longer be able to access again.- Jessica Chobot's bad voice acting of Diana Allers.I personally don't think she's THAT bad, but it is pretty nails-on-a-chalkboard compared to everyone else's superior voicework.- None of the character or major story choices from the past games matter much.They just result to a number on the War Assets screen. Many characters from the past you never even get to see again. So much for them literally fighting by your side against the Reapers! They just made it all feel so pointless.- (Somewhat subjective) The game, pretty much, has little replay value. Maybe this is because it's the final installment, or maybe it's because of the ending, but there just is hardly any reason to replay it after beating it.- (Somewhat subjective) The Soldier class has been signifcantly downgraded, making them the weakest class because they no longer have any advantages over anyone else. Actually more like, every other class has been upgraded to the point where the Soldier no longer has any actual advantages, at all.- The requirement to do multiplayer online in order to get 100% game completion. This is just BS!- The ending, of course.The one major thing, which in many's eyes, has completely destroyed not only the game, but the entire franchise. I didn't hate the ending(s) as much as everyone else and just kind of assumed DLC would explain the rest of it, since that's the unfortunate path it seems greedy game companies are going nowadays, anyway. (Though now that the DLC is out, the endings are somehow now worse because they really didn't add much onto the end.) And if you don't have an online account, you're stuck with the original endings. And they ("it", more like it) REALLY suck.* (Indoctrination Theory would've been SO much better. They wouldn't have even had to change that much, in my view. Just made some elements, like the final characters you see at the end, Reaper hallucinations, and the rest could've still been real. But I digress.) *NEITHER PRO OR CON:- Difficulity has been significantly weakened. It's gone down a peg for each one. "Insanity" is now as hard as the old "Hardcore". If not for the annoying enemy grenades, "Insanity" wouldn't be hard, at all.- The Reapers kind of ruin galaxy exploration. They're pretty annoying, but I guess it makes sense. They also hardly feel threatening at all, as all that happens if they catch you is you restart. I almost feel like there should've been something you'd have to do to escape their pursuit, like a laser-dodging spacefight in order to avoid being killed or getting the Normandy damaged or something.- Health has been seriously weakened, making it a lot easier to die than in ME2. I guess some will take that as a challenge, but on Insanity difficulity, it's pretty hindering.- There's now Multiplayer in the game, which has you playing as other soldiers and races in the galaxy, trying to defeat the Reapers in their own stories. Though I like the idea of showing how Shepard isn't the only heroic soldier in a galaxy of a trillion lives, the whole concept is a bit "too little, too late" and felt really unnecessary. Mass Effect would've been just as good of a series had multiplayer never existed. (Probably better, considering they try to make you do Multiplayer to get the best possible ending.)Overall:Worth renting. Beyond a doubt worth playing. But after the second London mission (and last part of the game), it should probably be stopped, to save yourself from dissapointment. It's a fun game. Kinda short. Still 99% perfect. If only not for that ending... I give the game overall 3 stars and 4 in gameplay. The ending, along with ALL the other faults I mentioned, definitely bring it down from what truly could've been a Perfect Game and unforgettable wrap-up to the greatest Sci-Fi series since Star Wars.
Just finished 5 minutes ago. I didn't think it was possible. I didn't want to believe it. I'm dumbfounded. The last ten minutes ruined this series for me, totally and completely. Worst writing I've ever seen in a game. If you buy this, don't play the last ten minutes. I've been a hard core fan since day 1 with this series, now I'm ready to wash my hands of it. Drew Karpyshyn left, and everything fell apart. The writing level is that of a brain dead clam. It made no sense and left me ill with regret. Unless Bioware/ EA corrects this (and I have no idea how) I will never buy another product with their names on it again. The gameplay and multiplayer is amazing 5/5 for everything but the last 10 minutes and cheeping out on tali's face. But the ending ruins it all. You don't believe me? That's ok. I wouldn't believe me either. You have to see this horror yourself to believe it.
This review contains spoilers, so if you are sensitive, stop reading now. Many people are complaining about the ending of Mass Effect 3 but I do not see the problem. Some people are complaining about the fact that Shepard dies. So what he dies at the end. The public doesn't decide the ending to games, movies, books, or television. The developers make that decision, as they should being that it's their product. Other people are complaining that they didn't understand the ending or didn't get the good ending where Shepard lives. I don't know how many endings there are but here is the ending that I got after playing the game for 90+ hours, completing every priority and side mission, retrieving every war asset, and having every conversation in single player only, no multiplayer. I also played and ported Mass Effect 1 & 2. At the end of Mass Effect 3 you meet the catalyst in the form of a ghostly child. The child explains why the Reapers exist but not who exactly created the Reapers. You are given three choices and you are told that you will die upon making your choice. The choices are:1) You may chose to destroy the Reapers but if you allowed the Geth to live they will also be destroyed along with EDI and any other synthetics. This will be evident when Joker crash lands on the planet and EDI does not exit the Normandy.2) You may chose to take control of the Reapers allowing their existence and any other synthetics' to continue. This will be evident when Joker crash lands on the planet and EDI exits the Normandy.3) You may chose to bring about the final stage of human evolution by merging synthetics and organics. This will be evident when Joker crash lands on the planet and he, EDI and another character exit the ship with signs of synthetics mixed in with their organics such as glowing eyes and circuitry running through their skin.Bottom line is Shepard dies no matter the choice but he is given the power by the catalyst to chose how life in general will continue. A fitting end to a great series.There were a few bugs like the Dekunna mission in the Minos Wasteland that never happened. The mission was in the Journal and you were supposed to help save the Elcor but that mission just never showed up. You could never land on the planet and when you went back to the Citadel to talk to the Elcor that gave you the mission in the first place, the mission is complete. This is something that should have been caught by the developers since it is so obvious. The Minos Wasteland also kept blinking as if there was a mission to be done. Other bugs were not being able to get into and out of cover. This was very frustrating at times. All in all I enjoyed the entire game including the endings. I was not confused and I don't understand others' confusion.Mass Effect 3 should not be given poor reviews solely because some individuals did not like the ending. The game should be rated on overall performance, not just the ending, which I had no problem with.
It's ridiculous how many poor ratings this game is getting from angry bitter people who let a cryptic ending spoil the entire Mass Effect universe for them. I won't cover the technical stuff in this "review" but I will say that this is the richest game I've ever played in my life, which is saying a lot. Rich in fun gameplay, rich in characters, in story, and in emotion. Its universe is so well-realized, beautifully drawn, and complex, every time I play it I truly get invested in this living, breathing world. I know the way I'm wording it probably sounds sappy but I can't help but be impressed by Bioware's intelligent writing and design.Which brings me to the ending. At first-viewing, the ending seems like a jarring juxtaposition from the great writing and logic we're so used to from the series. It feels like a cheap way out. But if you think about everything in this game and the ones before, if you really *look* for the clues and connect the dots, you'll realize how clever (and disturbing) the ending really is. I won't be able to explain it as well as others can, so do yourself a huge favor and watch the Youtube video: "Mass Effect 3 - Shepard's Indoctrination (NEW)" but only once you've finished the game or have seen the ending. Also consider googling the article "Why I Liked the Mass Effect 3 Ending (Eventually)" on GamesEyeView. Ignore the extreme, horrible ratings. If you're outraged by the ending, take the time to explore its meaning rather than condemning the game and its hardworking developer.While not completely perfect technically, it's an amazing ride with a hell of a story, and fast-paced gameplay accompanied by genuine, well-written characters and top-notch voice acting from all involved.
The Mass Effect trilogy has got to be one of the best game series i have ever played. The depth of each game is incredible, and Mass Effect 3 doesn't disappoint.BEFORE YOU DECIDE AGAINST THIS BECAUSE OF THE SO CALLED "CRAPPY ENDING" HERE ME OUT.Bioware released an extended cut ending for this game that fills in the gaps that were left in the original ending. It clears up so much and makes the ending much better and majorly worth the FREE 1.5 gigs of a download.If you do decide on getting this game there are so many great aspects you will enjoy.-Great easy to figure out combat-Amazing RPG style of game play-Great character design and depth-Paragon/Renegade options in the game (good and bad options)-Fantastic environmental design-Great soundtrack
I know some folks had complaints about the ending but really, it didn't bother me at all. I love how everything leading through the series, I become so invested in all of the characters, their worlds and just everything. This game and the series does something special and really should be celebrated. Definitely something that needs to be played but you should play all 3 in order to get the best experience.
*sigh*I don't think I'v ever been so existentially depressed over the finale of a story prior to this. I was so enthralled, so happy, so hopeful, that when it all came crashing down around my ears, I nearly punted my controller down a hallway and slunk off to the darkest corner of home. How did it all go so wrong?Alright, alright, it may help if I give an analysis of the positive aspects of Mass Effect 3, its meteoric rise, before going into it's hideous, shrieking fall.Well, after 5 years and three titles, the Mass effect trilogy reached what I can only describe as a fitting compromise in terms of it's combat. Evenly blending the Gears of War styled cover shooting of ME2 with the more tactical, power based combat of ME1, and oh my god does it work beautifully. The combat is smooth, challenging, customizable, fluid and very strategic. The combat is just a blast to play through and it's here in spades. Couple the stylistic improvements with vastly improved AI, generous cover, and easily learned controls and you have the best combat engine in the entire series.Then of course there's the customization. Upon the release of Mass Effect 2, many folks decried that entry for cutting down the RPG aspects (even though the RP in RPG emphasizes Role-Playing, not leveling up, I don't care what Final Fantasy says), and, when looking back on the weapons and level-up system, ME2 was a bit stripped down. In ME3, the weapon mods are back, and, while they're more limited than they were in the first game, you still get the feeling that you making each weapon your own. And the leveling implemented here is the best the trilogy has seen, fully allowing total customization over your powers and forcing you to make tactical decisions over where you put your points.Exploration is back as well, at least to an extent, as the world is overall much bigger than in ME2. It's still smaller than in ME1, but to be honest I wasn't even expecting the increase whatsoever. You get a real sense of scope for galaxy here, and the new worlds you get to touch down on are varied and unique.And then, there's the story. Up until the ending, this is the best storyline in the entire trilogy, featuring some of the best writing BioWare has ever done. The sense of scale, the raw emotion, the dialogue, the characters, the music, the direction, every single aspect of interactive storytelling is so well crafted, so excellent that it defies my descriptive powers to sum it up here. Suffice it to say, BioWare has crafted a tale well worth telling, and they should be proud of that if nothing else.But, not all is well in Mass Effect 3. Before I even touch the ending, we need to plow through just how rough and unfinished this game is. The mission structure is horrific, tedious and just a chore to navigate. Getting missions is easy but thoroughly uninvolving, and finding mission sensitive items and where to go is just a nightmare. Couple that with just how many missions will simply crash, bug out or become outright non-functional and how many missions are boring, lifeless throwaway garbage and a bulk of ME3 makes you just want to scream. Of course, all that could have been tolerable had it not been borderline necessary to complete side missions to up your Effective Military Strength (EMS) to get the best ending, even though the way in which your EMS effects the ending doesn't even begin to make a single shred of sense. And I know, you can "just play the multiplayer to up your readiness rating", blah, blah, blah. I'm sorry, and no offense intended to those of you who enjoyed the multiplayer, but, in my opinion, that aspect has no place in narrative driven, single player Role Playing Game, and I have to wonder how much time was sunk into it that could've been used to improve the single player game.And then of course we get to see how much the Role Playing has been scaled back. Entire cutscenes will go by with Commander Shepard talking, making chices and furthering YOUR story without YOUR input. WHAT!? This part really just burns me. After two games and 100+ hours of me controlling my character, suddenly now it's whisked out of my hands so I can watch my Shepard evolve without my input. This is so far against the concept of an RPG that I cannot even wrap my mind around any reason to justify it happening.But then, oh then, there's the ending. My god, I don't even know where to begin. I won't spoil it here,but suffice it to say that it's the most inconclusive, nonsensical, plot hole ridden, condensed, choice devoid load of bull BioWare could've pulled. Not only is it lousy, it completely ignores any and all of the philosophical ideas that were apart of the series narrative, such as Synthetic and Organic co-existence,  Free Will and what it means to be alive, and tolerance and unity. Overall it's so bad, and so fully disregards player choices that it actually sullies the enjoyment of the whole trilogy, especially knowing that none of your choices mean anything whatsoever.And even if you can put all of that aside, it fails on a basic consumer/seller level. As a seller, BioWare promised their product (Mass Effect 3) would posses certain features (conclusive answers, previous player choices deeply effect the ending, finality and closure), which the final product did not have. As consumers, we have the right to complain and request (not demand as many have done) some sort of compensation here. Oy.I really wanted to totally love Mass Effect 3, completely and unabashedly, but when it falls, it falls hard. There are some truly great aspects, but this really is the weakest entry in the series and a hollow ending to the tale of Commander Shepard.Out my care for the series:3 out of 5
I have been a fan of this series since the release date of mass effect 1. I have put my heart and soul into the games, and have enjoyed them immensely. The story, the decisions, the combat, the characters, and of course the setting. All of these great things are here except for the ending. Without spoiling much I just have to say the decisions you made during the course of the hundreds of hours you have invested over all three games like I have cease to matter. You are given a handful of linear endings (none which I was impressed by). I wouldn't go near as far as that whack job who tried to sue over the ending (haha, like he has a chance in hell), however I was extremely disappointed. As another reviewer wrote I will forget this horrible ending and read some fan fiction for a substitute (something I never do).
Mass Effect 3 has a heavy, heavy weight to carry.  It is the culmination of over five years of hard work from Bioware, and the many fans who have been there for the journey.  It has been laden with difficult decisions to make, many people have come and gone, and good friends have been lost.I will say that my expectations for this finale were high.  When the first Mass Effect came out, I could not believe that a game with so many variables was attempting to do what Bioware was promising.  We hadn't really seen anything of this scale before.  It was definitely interesting, and I believed that Bioware could pull it off.When Mass Effect 2 came out, I was a little concerned because many of the big decisions you had made in the previous game were either briefly mentioned, or merely whispered about.  And I hated the forced scenario of working for Cerberus.  Hated it.  The playable character lineup was bloated with too many new faces.  But, it was a great game.  I could go back and play ME2 today, and still enjoy the heck out of it.Mass Effect 3 starts off with your Shepard in a situation that you have absolutely no control over, whether you agree with him/her getting their self into this position.  I know I didn't.  There's no way.  It serves as a great setup for the experience you are about to partake in, which can be described in one word, "linear."Mass Effect 3 is a linear game in non-linear clothing.  To say that the decisions you've made over the past five years play very little into your experience this time around is an understatement.  Bioware made the mistake of promising that every decision had a consequence, but those consequences are merely replaced with filler characters.  That's right.  Nothing you have done to this point matters.One of the big focuses in this game is collecting "war assets".  I made the mistaken assumption that by wasting time and raising the galactic readiness, and going around wasting even more time scanning planets for war assets and objects, to only waste more time bringing said objects to nameless NPCs scattered around the Citadel, that it would make a difference.  Some kind of a difference.No.Ultimately, for a game that has been advertised as having this incredible spectrum of decisions to make, it seems that the only decision you need to make is to plow through the game.  Because the content along the way is completely inconsequential.  It doesn't matter what you do in this game *at all*.  If you don't do something that Bioware wants you to do, another character will do it for you.  If you have a character killed, Bioware replaces them with a random new guy.  If you waste as much time as I did actually bothering to collect war assets and raise galactic awareness..  Well, you figure that one out.Despite all this, I can not say that Mass Effect 3 is a bad game.  Absolutely not.  I loved it.  I had absolutely no problem with my game.  The combat feels complete this time around, and there is no behemoth, three ring circus of characters to choose from/ignore this time around.I was, however, disappointed by the ending.  I felt that for all that we had worked for, for so long, we deserved something more.  The ending in Mass Effect 3 feels like a Nintendo-era ending, where all you get is a title card telling you "CONGLATURATION!" or something.  Except instead of congratulating you, the game asks you to spend more money on DLC.  That's disgusting, Bioware.  Shame on you.  Seriously.  Shame-on-you.Ultimately, I believe that Mass Effect 3, in it's present state, is a forgettable end to an unforgettable series.
This is a great, fun game with improved game-play from the ME2. To everyone who is 1-starring it because of the ending, I ask: what about the journey? Should a game only be judged by its ending? I had a blast from beginning to end. I do agree the ending is weak, but I can't throw out a 30 hour game because the last 10 minutes are  sub-par. For me the journey is more important.
Great game and a beautiful ending to the series. I especially loved the last few hours. I would definitely recommend it.
I must preface this review by saying that I am a major Mass Effect fan.  I have played Mass Effects 1 and 2 through eight times (now working to finish all of those imported characters in Mass Effect 3).  I have read all of the books (even suffering through Mass Effect: Deception which was awful).  I have read all of the comic books.  Therefore, I believe I speak with a level of credibility on the subject of the Mass Effect universe.I'll cut right to the chase and address the issue that most people are having with the game (then I'll follow it with the less controversial stuff).  The following includes SPOILERS.  You are fighting throughout the game to rid the galaxy of the threat of annihilation by machines known as the Reapers.  Most people are having issues with the end of the game.  At the end, you have three choices- destroy the Reapers, control the Reapers, or assimilate organics with synthetics to make all organic life organic/synthetic hybrids.  If you choose the latter two, Shepard dies.  No matter what choice you make, the Normandy crashes and the crew set off into a lush green world (presumably to start afresh in some sort of colony).  The destruction of the Reapers ending implies that Shepard dies, only to show him/her take a breath, hinting that he/she survived.  A major complaint I have heard/read is that you have literally hundreds of variables imported from the previous two games, combined with the decisions in the third game, and none of them are addressed in the ending.  While this is true in a sense, it is not entirely accurate.  Although the ending cinematic is one of three, there are ample opportunities for cut scenes and conversations with your squad mates that lend both closure and hope for some resolution.  Yes, the ending is open.  It is understandably intentionally so.  With over a thousand choices in the three games combined, having specific endings is not possible by any stretch of the imagination.  You would need whole extra discs just to accommodate that.  Instead, just as the game is unique to the player playing it (it is possible to chart a path of choices through the three games that is entirely your own), you must take what you want from the ending.  It is clever and excellent writing on behalf of the writing team, and few people seem to fully understand it.  After hundreds of hours of play time between the three games and 5 years invested in it, it is understandable that some people are upset with the ending.  I find it respectable that Bioware didn't simply program a "Mega Happy Ending" where Shepard walks off into the sunset (of whichever planet's sun) with Ashley or Liara or Tali, etc.  This ending is one that many will hate, but one that is quite good.Now that I have addressed the most controversial part of the game, I'll highlight the amazing and less controversial stuff.  First, the gameplay is so refined.  Playing through Mass Effect 1,2, & 3 in succession illustrates the evolution of the game.  Part 2 introduced a more intuitive cover system, better access to powers, etc.  Part 3 builds on the advances of part 2 and adds rolling, ladder usage, and turret accessibility, among other things.  A charged melee and stealth takedowns from cover are also welcome additions.  The graphics of the game are the best of the trilogy.  The story is very good- the game does an excellent job of using cut scenes, dialogue, and computer terminals and email to solve the nagging questions of the story.  For those of you who have read the books, the addition of Kahlee Sanders, Grissom Academy, and Kai Leng are good tie ins.  It adds a degree of satisfaction to kill Kai Leng in the game, after he so often escapes in the books.The multiplayer is a good addition as well.  I have heard the complaint that some feel that the attention of the design team was taken away from the main story to complete the multiplayer.  This doesn't appear to be the case.  The main game is too polished for this to be true.  I must note that the multiplayer match making is quite good (I get into online games faster than most other games I play).  The multiplayer levels are also playable by Shepard in the single player.  The ability to play with different races and access different powers is fun and strangely addicting.  The Kinect features are good but at times unnecessary- You can read the dialogue, even though it is faster to just select an option.  You can say things like "open" when next to a door to open the door, when it is faster to press 'A' to open the door.  The only thing with the Kinect that I found to be truly helpful was in combat- the Xbox functionality allows you to only map 3 powers/abilities to buttons.  To use your other powers, you need to pull up the power wheel (which pauses the action), select the power, and then the game resumes.  With the Kinect, you can say any power (yours or a teammates) and the power is executed.  It makes combat a little more seamless.  Unlike PC players, who can map powers through many keys, the ability to map powers to only three buttons on the Xbox can be limiting, and the Kinect makes up for it.Overall, the game is excellent.  Many people don't like the endings, but that actually doesn't surprise me at all.  I feel that the game does a great job of tying everything together throughout (rather than in some grandiose ending cut scene).  The gameplay is excellent, the story is excellent.  I recommend this game to everyone, and I will warn them upfront that the ending is not perhaps what they expect or want.  Nonetheless, it is superbly well done.The series reminds me of the Lord of the Rings movies- the third movie is excellent on its own (won best picture that year), but it is augmented by the two preceding movies.  In the same way, I believe that someone who plays this game without having played the previous two games will find enjoyment.  However, the third game is bolstered by the relationships and decisions of the previous two games.  The game is an epic end to an amazing trilogy. I would not be surprised of it wins MANY game of the year awards this year.
Improvements on gameplay and story over the previous installments.  The very end was a bit disappointing, but overall the game was as good or better in every other way than it's predecessors.
Starting off with the fact that a majority of your play time will consist of cut scenes and not actually playing the game. If I hadn't skipped the dialogue so often, My time would have easily been 5-6 hours instead of 3 and a half. There are not a lot of dialogue choices either.As for the changes in the game play - Light melee attacks come off as playful taps while heavy melee attacks seem easily avoidable and yet an enemy will just stand there. The fact that they stripped the gun play down so much is disappointing. Instead of dealing with a gun that simply overheats, You have to constantly reload and find ammo, I am very annoyed they changed it when it was perfectly fine originally.The new characters in the game are not that likable, Then again neither are the reoccurring ones due to poorly written dialogue. The story is painfully unsatisfying as well.Overall, Mass Effect 3 simply changes too much and not in a good way, Thus making it one of the most disappointing games I have ever played.
The character importer does not import faces from existing Shepherds, so you are stuck with someone that looks nothing like your character from the first two.  I had it since it came out and can not and will not play it until it is fixed.  Bottom-line the game is a waste of money until it is fixed, if ever.  Even then I hear the endings are horrible and apparently Bioware is thinking about fixing them.  It seems that this game should have been delayed another year to fix all of the problems or restarted from scratch.
Finsihed the game for a 2nd time-after reading all I could about the ending I made sure I had a score of over 5000, did I get the so called ending no.  Just the 2 choices. The first one either control the reapers or the 2nd choice destory it all.  Did the firts choice control the reapers as I am looking at the ship, now I know I choice Vega as part of my assault I am wondering how he ended up back on the ship once it crashed landed, that made no sense at all.  All of the Cannon that bioware started in the first 2 games as far as I know is now completely out the window.  And they charged $60 for what.  Whatever Bioware does for this so called new footage they plan and if there is a god I hope they serious change this ending the way the game ended this not even worth $29.99.  Just a hyped up game to make people buy there product nothing more to it.  The only way I even consider the DLC is if they seriously clean up this farce of an ending.
This wasn't the review I wanted to give. Believe me, it wasn't. I wanted to give a review praising this game. I wanted to talk a lot about the struggle between fear and hope. I also really wanted to compliment BioWare and the programming team as a whole as they really made me love all the relationships in the game (not just the sex....but the friendships which came so naturally). But I can't. I just can't.I've played Mass Effect from the beginning, like many of you out there. There have been many, many great reviews...and I wanted to add my own voice. Maybe you'll agree with me. Maybe you won't. That's cool either way. All I can express is my own views on the game.1.  I loved the gameplay. I think BioWare perfected the interface. Battles worked smoothly. The roleplaying aspects seemed intuitive as well.2.  It is true...your choices do not matter in the game. BioWare lied. They promised the players that the choices made in Mass Effect 1 and 2 would play a major, if not important, part in Mass Effect 3. But that was not the case. Important missions and events in the first two games got mentioned briefly and nothing more. The decisions came off as reminiscing rather than mattering. I felt, and still feel, lied to.3.  I paid $59.95 for this game through Amazon.com. But I didn't get the complete game. In order to get the Prothean into the party, I had to shell out an additional ten dollars. BioWare made a day one DLC for a character that seems critical to the overarching narrative of what happened to the past races. Getting one in the group makes sense from a storytelling perspective as it is coming full circle. And since this was a day one DLC, this character was already made well before the game was in final production. They saw a way to milk additional money out of fans of the series.4.  So would I get the complete game for $69.95? Of course not. In order to have access to the 'happy ending,' (I own an XBox 360)...I have to shell out additional money to get access to online play. That could range between $10 - $30 a month! I'm looking at a minimum $79.95 for a complete play-through. They are just trying to get every penny they can out of the player.5.  The ending...many wiser people than I have commented on the ending. I want to add to the voice of general discontent. I wanted a happy ending. An epilogue. I want to learn what happened to everyone in a long epilogue. Did Tali and Garrus make it? What about Ashley? What occurred with her? I couldn't find her when saying goodbye to everyone. She crash-landed on the planet...what happened to the love of Shephard's life? And even more broadly, what happened to the galaxy after the Reapers? Without the relays, what happened? Was there efforts to rebuild them? Did the Geth finally make peace with their creators? And the Krogan? What happened with the Krogan? There were so many questions. No answers.I want to go on, but I cannot. Words escape me. I wanted to love this game. I wanted to praise it. But now? I just can't.Avoid this entire series.-=-=-=-=-=-The ending should have been simple. The Crucible is just a monstrous laser beam that tears Reapers into little bits, and then we have Shepard wake up on the Normandy, Lord of the Rings style.And then the epilogue plays. To celebrate the victory, the biggest party in Galactic history is thrown on the Citadel. Everyone gets filthy drunk and dances the night away. EDI and Joker try to have sex, which ends with a shattered pelvis. Grunt does some hilarious stuff, Jack gets in a catfight with Miranda (jello optional), Garrus and Shepard go swimming in the giant lake, Wrex tries to join them and almost drowns (in a funny way) but finally gets that fish, someone pours a Gatorade bucket (Mass Effect equivalent) on Hackett's head, who flips out at first but ends up having fun, and other general hijinx ensue.And then afterwards there's a bunch of shots of the different species rebuilding their homeworlds. Shots of the Quarian and Geth getting along, the leftover Reaper corpses towed into space and blown into bits, red tape being cut, etc. Happy happy happy.And then there's a love interest ending. For example, Ashley and Shepard are shown with her family on Earth, maybe starting a new life together in the military. Or whoever the love interest was...just show them together....And then, the final shot is of the Statue of Shepard that gets erected in the Citadel, and it fades to credits.And there are no child gods, I don't feel like I should have to explain why.
This game is amazing!  And the fact that the company went and added some free DLCS when there were some complaints about the ending was really nice of them.  If you're a fan of the series definitely a must have, be prepared to cry at the end when its all over.
Let me preface this review by stating that I'm sure the the first and second Mass Effect games would be in my list of the Top 100 Games of All-Time, and probably nearer to the top. Mass Effect 1 was an incredible blend of old-school sci-fi noir and modern gameplay mechanics. Mass Effect 2 was a darker spin on that universe with a "Dirty Dozen" vibe of team-building. Mass Effect 3 is, for someone who enjoyed the first two games, a slap in the face. I will try to avoid spoilers for ME3 as much as possible, with minor spoilers for ME1 and ME2.What went wrong?-Not My Character. The entire point of this trilogy is that a player could create a custom character in the first game, and their decisions can be imported across both sequels so that everything in the third game is customized based on past decisions across both prequels. Sounds great, right? Well, Bioware admitted they didn't actually have anyone test this for the third game, and it turns out if you imported the same character from ME1 to ME2 and want to cross over to ME3, your save file is unreadable and you will be forced to play a default character instead. Bioware claim they're looking at implementing a fix now that they've been told about this, but launching the game without this feature is inexcusable. (Technical note: Your save data will only work if you made changes to your character's face during the import from ME1 to ME2, but this was not stated at the time, and why would you do that if you bothered to import your character in the first place?)-Not My Decisions. Again, a major marketing point of the trilogy was the ability for your decisions to have impact across all three games. In the end however, you will be given a choice between three mostly prefabricated endings, and the biggest difference between those is a color change. Red, Blue, or Green. That's all your decision-making across three games has mattered, swapping some colors. Throughout Mass Effect 3 (and, to a lesser extent, ME2) your decisions don't really have major effects anyway. Let a character die, and they'll be replaced in the next game by a similarly-named character with nearly identical looks and dialog. Or worse, you just won't be presented with a certain quest option, and thus have no clue at all what you missed. There really aren't any penalties for any decisions you have made or will make, and the fate of the galaxy depends more on playing multiplayer than anything else you do.-Not My Ending. Okay, I'll admit, I wanted a happy ending to the series. But I had good reason to hope for this. The entire point of ME1 and ME2 is that Shepard is the lone hero, the only force in the galaxy that can overcome insurmountable odds to win the day and save the galaxy. Shepard literally returned from the dead during the second game, yet during the third we are presented with a true no-win situation. Not to spoil any specifics, but all three endings involve crushing defeat. You as a player have control over neither of these story options (Shepard's death in 2 and all endings in 3 are almost entirely pre-scripted). So which is it Bioware- is Shepard an unstoppable juggernaut of hope, or the tragically fated hero? You can't have both.-Not My Galactic Readiness- Or is it EMS? Supposedly in ME3, the fate of the galaxy depends on the galactic readiness, which measures all the assets you've prepared to fight the bad guys. Only there are actually two statistics, and you're not really told which is which, so you might look at the wrong one for most of the game (You actually want Effective Military Strength, because Galactic Readiness only boosts EMS, even though Galactic Readiness seems like the important-sounding one). It also turns out Galactic Readiness can only be improved by playing multiplayer or the iOS app for mobile devices, while EMS can only be improved in singleplayer- which you probably won't pick up in-game. So you cannot change Galactic Readiness at all in the singleplayer game, and this doesn't seem to be stated clearly in the game itself. And although Bioware promise there's enough stuff in singleplayer to boost EMS to the necessary levels, most people report getting one of the "bad" endings despite completing what they thought was 100% of the game. Got that? I didn't. It's a mess.There are a lot of other reasons to hate ME3. Savvy internet folk have noticed that major elements of ME3 have been ripped off of internet resources, including major aspects of the game being based off of years-old stock photographs that the developers spruced up in Photoshop. Publishers Electronic Arts are still trying to bilk people's wallets by selling Cerberus Network passes to people who don't buy the game new, which also requires signing up for EA services just to unlock the features. There's been heavy hinting that the lackluster ending of ME3 will be patched up in future Downloadable Content- which you can bet you'll have to pay for (especially if you don't want to pony up for Cerberus Network by handing your personal information to EA). The forces that be stopped so low as to charge money for new character clothing in the last game, and you can bet they'll bring that back for this game.In the end, there are a few moments in this game that are absolutely praiseworthy (Mordin's storyline in particular is brought to an incredible climax), but it's just not worth it. If you played ME1 and ME2 with the hopes of seeing your same character in the third game, odds are you literally can't do that unless the game has been patched in the meantime, so just go with the story you made up in your head and be happy with it. Don't let Bioware and EA ruin the good memories you forged in the first two games.
I was a huge fan of Mass Effect. I also liked Mass Effect 2, despite some disappointing changes in the core fundamentals of the game. I was really hoping that with the third and final game in the Mass Effect trilogy, Bioware would make the perfect game, listening to fan feedback, correcting past mistakes, and combining the best of the previous games. Unfortunately, Mass Effect 3 is the worst game in the series, making a lot of mistakes and omitting the parts that made the previous games so great.I loved the deep RPG elements of the first ME, so when ME2 streamlined (simplified) a lot of the RPG elements, I was a little disappointed. I hoped that ME3 would bring back some of the deeper RPG stuff, like weapon, armor, and character upgrading, but they kept it streamlined much like ME2. This makes the game feel more like an action shooter than an RPG.ME3 also simplifies a lot of your conversations, reducing the dialogue wheel to just "renegade" or "paragon" choices, and nothing else. For me, having tons of dialogue options made me feel more in control of my character. Now I feel like I can only play one of two characters Bioware forces me to be, instead of being "my" character. Less is the name of the game, and in an RPG, it comes as a letdown.The side missions in the first ME were not as good as the main missions, and after a while got repetitive, but I still liked that they contributed to my character's progression, both in experience and development. In ME2, the side missions were fewer, but felt more realized, and were overall better. Often, characters I saw and helped in ME would reappear in ME2, and in some instances they would give me more side missions. Your choices in the first ME seemed to have consequences in ME2. In ME3, most of your decisions in ME1 and 2 have little effect on ME3. Mostly it just results in one line from an old character, and you can't even respond to them. Then there's the side missions. Or, rather, the lack of them. What happened?ME3 was supposed to be the biggest, best, deepest game in the series, but it wound up being the smallest, shallowest game.The addition of multiplayer is interesting, and can be fun, but to force players to partake in multiplayer seems unfair, especially if you don't have an Xbox Live account. If you don't play multiplayer, it will have a negative impact on your single player experience. This is just plain wrong, to punish players for not paying for Xbox Live.The shooting gameplay is solid. It is very similar to ME2, with a few tweaks here and there. The addition of the stab action is neat, but doesn't make the game better. Overall, no real complaints in the controls or gameplay area.The biggest disappointment with ME3 has to be the ending. You've probably heard people complain about it, defend it, call it artistic, theorize about indoctrination, etc. The fact is, the ending is just sloppy. I won't spoil it, but without going into detail, I can say that the ending is nonsensical. For the people defending that it's artistic, I ask, what is the artistic merit in making a confusing, irrational ending that gives no closure and breaks continuity? For the people claiming that it's indoctrination, that doesn't make the ending less terrible. That's like stories that end with, "it was all a dream". Every writer worth his salt knows that "it was all a dream" is a cheap device that lazy writers use because they can't be bothered to wrap things up in a clever way.The biggest crime in the ending is that all of your decisions, big and small, don't count for anything in the last hour of the game. Renegade, Paragon, level 20 or level 50, male or female, which characters you saved, who you romanced, and all of that doesn't matter. No matter how you played, you will be funneled into a room and given three choices. Each choice result in the same ending with different colored explosion. What was the point of all my decisions up to this point if a level 20 female renegade can make the same decision and get the exact same ending as a level 50 male paragon with different squadmates? For a game that puts so much emphasis on letting players affect the story, the ending throws that out the window at a time when it was most important.Bioware offers up some DLC, and some say that future DLC will give closure to the game's ending, but this doesn't change the fact that I paid $60 for an incomplete game with a very poorly executed ending. Also, DLC doesn't fix the ending for people who don't have Xbox Live, or don't care to spend even more money on DLC. You must evaluate a product on what is presented, not on what could be, or might be, or speculation for the future. What is currently presented on the ME3 disc is a disappointment.There are some good moments in the main campaign, but side missions are few and poorly executed, RPG stuff is too streamlined, character development is limited, and the ending is just tacked on crap. Had this been the first game in another series, I would have just been content to say, "bad game" and move on. But I have invested both time and money into the previous games because of their excellent quality, and I had reasonably high hopes for the third game to conclude the amazing stories of these engaging characters I had grown to love. Instead, everything that mattered was discarded, and the ending was the final nail in the coffin.If you don't buy this game you will have to suffer through the lack of closure to your story, and if you buy this game you will have to suffer through the lack of closure to your story.
My original review was a little negative about its ranking. I now need to reconsider the overall game value.Storyline: Well conceived working to an obvious outcome, though not popular to the hardliners; Shepherd, in keeping with his character depiction, has only one choice. The hero sacrifices himself in the highest tradition. A True Ending.After gaining the 60th level and with the 10th ranking on weapons, the game becomes more exciting and Insanity is a definite challenge. The game is a definite winner as the last in line of Mass Effect.Note: Since I got a collectible edition for $37, I noticed all the cheapo collectibles have now disappeared. Guess my mention spurred those sales.
Shame on everyone who gave this game a 1 star rating.Mass Effect 3 was a great game from start to almost finish. The very last cut scene of the game was a little disappointing, but only a little. If I could have knocked my review down to 4.95 stars instead of 5, I might have, but there is no way on earth this is a 1 star game.The graphics, game play, story and characters were all stellar and the fact that the ending wasn't some happy triumph doesn't mean we lump this game in with bargain-basement, 1 star, titles.
Great game, works great, came with the online pass that hadn't been used and I look forward to completing this game
Like everyone else has pretty much said the ending is quite terrible in this game. It is so disconnected with all of the previous content in any of the games that it makes it feel like you are not even playing the same game. I dont even know how they thought this ending would make sense (yes there are 3 endings but they are all the same). It is complete garbage. Nothing in it makes any sense after you are done with Cerberus. None of the characters matter and there is no real resolution with harbinger or The Allucit Man. It becomes some kind of BS indirect ending that was never hinted being possible but just shoved down our thoats like we would just accept it....i dont give this game a 1 or 2 because it is actually a fun game but I understand why people have. We have commited hours upon hours to this series to have such a terrible ending....Some additional things. I feel bad for those that dont have the DLC cause he is a major character with major plot lines associated with him. Also I dont think they did as good of a job with the character development in this game compared to the previous. The new characters do not have as much substance to them and most of the old ones barely give anything additional to the story. It is like they just have conclusions to their ME2 characters. There are a few exceptions like Tali and Miranda. But most characters just feel like add on's. More of the story is focused on the larger scale effects to the characters not the personal aspects like previous games.Also in my mind there is no way to do DLC unless it effects the ending. I am not going to go back like the game takes you after you beat it to before the Cerberus conflict and do DLC. It is pointless.In closing it was a good attempt by BIOWARE and ME1 and ME2 are fantastic but I dont think they new how to do an ending that would actually use all the pieces to this game. Instead they gave us a disconnected ending that was just lazy and wrecks the game.Update:The new endings are better. Destroy is well done and probably the most effective ending to the series. Control is good and a little dark. Synthesis is kind of goofy now. The 4th option they could have explored a little more because there could have been some depth there but it is funny to me. This game is still not a 5 star game. Especially compared to 1 and 2 but it is worth playing now and an acceptable conclusion now.2nd update:Played through the first game again and most of the 2nd one. Put my review back to 3 stars. Beyond the improved combat this game just does not stand up against the other two. The story just shuts down the other 2 games. The enemy should have been harbinger not the star child. He does not even say anything in the last game. When he was the main protagonist of the first 2 games. He was like the emperor in Star Wars and we were given no conclusion. the star child was a joke and the updates are only acceptable based on being ok with the star child. Also the third game does not come close to the character developement of the second game and it just shuts down all that you worked for with the crew from ME:2. EA and Bioware have will not be part of my game purchases going forward.
I just can't believe what has become of Bioware. I had a sinking feeling when I heard that they had been bought out by EA, but remained hopeful that EA would allow them to continue to make the high quality immersive RPG'S I had grown to love. Honestly Bioware is the only reason I even still own a gaming console, but with each game released by Bioware, I am starting to realize that their heyday of making great RPG'S is a thing of the past and I think the Mass Effect trilogy stands as a testament to that. While I would say by comparison to their other games ME1 was mediocre at best it was still a decent overall RPG. ME2 showed a transition to more of a shooter and this one really completes that metamorphosis into a full on shooter.While Bioware games have alway been a bit linear in nature, but I never felt as if I was being forced down a path as you could explore pretty much at will. That's gone with this title and you are pretty much forced down a corridor. To make it worse minutes of dialogue seem to take place without you being given the chance to select what to say, so that element of you being your character has been dumbed down. I don't play shooters to really know, but I would say the mechanics (targeting and such) in this are horrible. Enemies seem to move fast and my aim feels soooo slow for instance.I don't know but after DA2 and now this game, I think it is time to start mourning the loss of Bioware and the top-notch immersive story telling RPG they pioneered.I hate you EA...I absolutely hate you for destroying what Bioware used to be.
TO ALL THE PEOPLE COMPLAINING ABOUT THE ENDING I THINK PENNY ARCADE SUMMED IT UP BEST: [...]I went into Mass Effect 3 with incredibly high expectations. From the trailers leading up to the release of the game, you could tell that the emotional impact was going to be significant. The Reapers are finally here. In a universe with such rich backstory, where decisions have a major impact, and you've grown to know and love characters over the dozens of hours of the two previous installments, it would be easy for BioWare to have a major misstep.Luckly, they didn't. This game is AMAZING!The scale and scope of the game leaves me in awe. From the skyscraper sized Reapers to the battles that are occurring in the background. From the magical space battles to the conversations with the crewmates, everything is beautifully done. BioWare knew what they wanted to do with this game and they delivered in spades.Gameplay:If you enjoyed the feel of Mass Effect 2 more than 1, you're in luck. The gameplay carries over almost verbatim. Squadmates are even more independent than ME2 and that's a good thing. The micromanagement that went into ME1 was tactically interesting but really slowed down the battles. They know what needs to be done and they do it. Getting into and out of cover is at times a little wonky, as in the past, but there are times when it flows perfectly it feels like a perfectly executed maneuver. Then sometimes I bounce around and get shot in the face... win some/lose some.The only notable addition are the melee strikes. This is helpful, as more often than not you're forced to abandon cover (whether it's a grenade or you're being charged). This makes the battles a little more dynamic than the "pop out of cover when the other guy does" battles of ME2 and makes them feel a little more fast paced. I generally avoid melee unless I have to, but it's an interesting addition nonetheless. I will say straight up that the environments and enemy types vary more than the previous two games combined, and that's awesome. It's nice to face different strategies, keeps things fresh.There's the Kinect option to use. I tried it and I couldn't get anyone to listen me half the time. I attribute it to the fact that my speakers were cranked so, if this were real life, they probably couldn't hear me anyway. Yeah... that's the ticket. On the rare occasion it does work, it's pretty cool.Graphics:The look is a little crisper, the framing a little better, everything looks a little more polished. I absolutely loved the background events, the cinematic space battles, all of the crazy stuff.Sound:Everything is very sharp and works well on my surround system. The Reapers make some sort of crazy bass sound that shakes my entire living room. It's awesome. Seriously.Multiplayer:If you liked Gears of War Horde Mode you'll love this. Simple as that. I think it's fun but I'm always placed with random since my friends don't buy games very often. Still, it's pretty sweet. Plus, it helps you becomes "more prepared" in the actual campaign. It's not required to play but it's a nice touch. Persistent leveling also gives a sense of purpose. Be careful cranking it up to hard, it gets pretty nuts.Overall:GET IT! If you loved ME1 and ME2 this could be a bucket of crap and you'd get it since the story is so amazing. Luckily, it's fantastic. Enjoy!
This game is a disappointing sequel because of how little this game has to do with the fantastic Mass Effect 2, though I understand why. Bioware needed to make this game playable to everyone who played ME2 and would import their saves. Because of this, ME3 had to make sense to people who had the worst possible ending of ME2. So it makes sense to have as little to do as possible with ME2. So, even if you were like me and reloaded games until everyone [SPOILERS] survived the ending in ME2,[END SPOILERS] it doesn't matter because they only briefly appear in this game, (except for 2 of them). This is a shame because ME2 had a great cast of characters, that I would have loved to have more interaction with in this game. This game really feels like a sequel to ME1 and not ME2.My biggest complaint with this game is that Bioware claimed we didn't need to play the multiplayer to get the optimal "best" ending, which is technically NOT TRUE. To get the optimal "best" ending, you need your "Effective Military Strength" to be really high. EMS is a combination of "War Assets", which you get in single player, divided by the "Galactic Readiness", which stands default at 50%. The only way to increase the "Galactic Readiness" divider is with the apps or the multiplayer. So, even if you gather all the "War Assets" in single player, the total "Effective Military Strength" will be 50% of all your "War Assets", which is not enough to get the optimal "best" ending. I'm pretty angry about this because I don't want the apps or to play the multiplayer. So what is my incentive to obsessively get all the War Assets, if I cant get the highest EMS? So what is the point in including this egg hunt if there is no real reward for your customers? I know the "best" ending is pointless anyways, it only add a couple of seconds to the ending, but they shouldn't have done that.Other than those minor issues, this game is a giant improvement over the previous ones combat-wise. You have more different types of enemies, they are constantly moving and reacting to your combat style. They are unique and require different tactics to defeat them. This is way better than simplistic the combat in ME1 and 2, where you just sat there and killed off waves of enemies. You can once again upgrade your weapons and add parts to customize it to your liking, similar to how it was in ME1. You are now capable of using any weapon competently. In ME1 you could carry and use any weapon regardless of your Class, but if the weapon did not suit your class, your aim was really bad. I played as a Vanguard, so I was terrible with the assault rifle in ME1 and could not even carry it in ME2. Now I finally get to use it and actually hit targets in ME3. On the one side, I am upset because my character class shouldn't be able to use the assault rifle, but on the other hand, I really like using it, heehee!This game is good, is a fun shooter and has good customizing elements and great characters. But the story is what really made the previous games great. They really made you feel like what you did mattered in the game, and that all your consequences would be present in ME3, but they are not. This is not a bad game at all, and probably deserves a better rating than the one it has as a stand alone game. But this is a sequel, and as such it has to be compared and rated to its predecessors. Unfortunately, in my opinion, this is a disappointing addition to the Mass Effect series.The story, combined with the spineless tactic of dangling the "best ending" carrot to try and force you to play their multiplayer or aps really ruined this game for me.
Spoiler-free review from a fan of ME, but not a crazy-passionate, read-all-the-books kind of fan. I have played through the entire ME trilogy; I really liked ME1, thought ME2 was better overall and I'll put ME3 just a little behind ME2.I understand a lot of people have `very' passionate opinions about this game/series/ending and I was well aware of the review-hate before receiving my copy. Based on some of the user reviews, I was expecting some sort of horrifically comical ending like where, I don't know, Liara takes off her blue mask and she was the Illusive Man after all (!) or something. So when I got near the ending, I was truthfully somewhat excited to finally see what wretched, soul-destroying curveball Bioware concocted in their evil attempts to alienate their fan base. A few moments later, I finally reached the ending and... I thought it was fine.Before `constructive criticism' is aimed my way, know that I do understand how the ending could be underwhelming for certain people who are truly invested and that I find your one-star ratings valid and acceptable if you truly felt emotional disturbance by the outcome. I'm not going to go into detail on my personal thoughts of the ending but it wasn't anywhere close to what the hate-reviews made me believe; I was actually impressed in Bioware for attempting to take the route of artistic integrity in a mainstream (and high-$) production, even if they did or didn't really pull it off (to each their own). I would definitely recommend this game if you're on the edge but scared off by the user feedback - I don't regret my purchase in the least, it was a great game.
I really enjoyed playing the first two games, and liked the fact that your saves can be used on the next game over. Mass Effect 3 seemed absolutely exceptional on the trailers and gameplay videos I watched before picking up the game. When I loaded it up and started playing, all seemed to be well, I was enjoying myself.Then came the last bit of the game. What I witnessed was the equivalent of what a parent would go through if their child was kidnapped and tortured. I feel like I was robbed. There is no reason why this ending should exist. And not only this, the developers are fine with the ending, and have no plans to change it.Great job EA, being the sellouts that you are known to be. And great job as well Bioware, it must have taken so much effort to ruin what should have been game of the year!
****Warning...this review contains content that could be spoilers for some. I tried to keep it as vague as possible while conveying disappointment with the ending*********************I can't see giving this game lower than 3 stars because it was just so incredible. Bioware stepped up their game and the SP and MP are both second to none. The voice acting and story telling is even better than the previous two games IMO. I was on the edge of my seat for the whole game, but then.....I don't want to give anything away, but there were some major glitches in the last parts of the game that caused me to have to restart my system and play missions again. This may have been somewhat unique to my gameplay, but it was unacceptable and took away from the story for me. They weren't just little glitches that can be forgiven, but major ones that impacted my gameplay. i.e. You get to make a choice at the end of the game for the ending you want and I didn't know which was which. I walked up to one and then it was glitched and I couldn't walk away from it, so I was forced to choose the ending that I didn't want.As far as the ending, I actually thought it was kind of cool. I was hoping for something a little less dark, but I guess I expected that it would have to be a little bleak if humanity was going to stop something that had been going on for billions of years. My issue is that they didn't explain enough, and the different endings were too similar. I made a lot of major decisions in all three games that didn't seem to matter in the end; I watched all the endings and there wasn't much difference between them. I did everything right and got my forces up to full strength, but it doesn't really feel like it matters. I would have liked to have seen about a 30 minutes cutscene at the end that rapped everything up, but they didn't deliver. 4 years of my life ends in a way that was somewhat unsatisfying. Again, I like the concept of the ending, but they could have explained more and showed the aftermath of your decisions. I would have liked to have seen bigger differences in the ending choices and the decisions you had made. They could have given me a video that showed how everyone was doing in the new world and what the consequences of the choices were. It feels like they just ran out of time or money at the end and chose not to pursue a more in depth ending sequence. I've come to expect the highest quality from Bioware; they delivered up until the very end.I would still highly recommend this game though. I can't think of any other games that rival the depth and emotion of this game. I would pay a lot more than 60 bucks for games if other companies could deliver like this.Please come out with a 20 or 30 minutes DLC video that explains everything for me Bioware. I'll pay you 10 bucks. ThanksIf they release something that improves on the ending, I'll change my rating to 5 stars.*****************************************************************************************************UPDATE: Extended cut offers pretty much what I was hoping for in an ending; the ending that was already great but just didn't provide closure or answer questions, now gave me what I wanted. Thanks for fixing the ending and making a great game worthy of 5 stars Bioware. I've changed my rating to 5 now.
I am a huge fan of the Mass Effect game series.  The game itself is a good game.  Written well, great graphics, but the ending is what ruined it for me.  Not sure why bioware decided to end the series this way.  False advertising about the game play through effecting the ending.  There are basically three endings and they are pretty much the same.  I cannot give it five stars due to this.  I personally will not be buying any of the future mass effect games if there are any
I'm not going to belabor the facts that the single-player game is only worthwhile to those who have played the first two games, the ending is horrible, the DLC only matters to diehard fans, the game mechanics are clunky when compared to other shooter/rpg hybrids (like Fallout), and BioWare and EA have made so many public relations/game design missteps with this game that they made Rick Santorum's campaign for presidency look sane. Mass Effect 3 is a three-star single-player experience, but something must be said for the multiplayer, which I also give a three-star rating.At first, multiplayer is very enjoyable. You choose a class (Adept, Soldier, Engineer, Infiltrator, Sentinel, or Vanguard) and a class-specific race. Each race within a class has slightly different abilities. You can name individual characters (which really has no purpose since only you will see the names), change their appearances, and equip a wide variety of weapons and mods. Next you choose a level to play on (there's a decent variety here), an enemy to face (Cerberus, Geth, or Reapers), and a difficulty setting (Bronze, Silver, Gold, or Platinum). Then you'll find yourself in a four-player lobby from where you launch the game. Players work together fighting against ten waves (plus one extra wave before an extraction) of enemies. Every third, sixth, and tenth wave there is a random objective to complete within a time limit. There are five possible objectives: hack a terminal, disable/enable four electronic devices scattered throughout a level, find two packages and bring them to designated areas, destroy four target enemies, or escort a hovering ball to a specific location. You earn credits (awarded after battle) for completing objectives and experience for completing a battle. The experience levels up the class you are using (up to level 20), and a level up gives you points to upgrade character abilities. Credits can be used to purchase packs, and the packs unlock various weapons, weapon upgrades, mods, additional character appearances, and a few other things. All of this sounds great, and it is undoubtedly fun and even addicting to unlock weapons and try out all of the characters. If you reach level 20 with a class, you can "promote" it, which raises your N7 level (a number that all players see but has no purpose beyond bragging rights), helps to acquire one achievement in the single-player campaign or unlock the "true" single-player game ending, and resets the class back to level 1. This is an excellent thing to do when you want to spend ability points in a different manner and test out new character builds.This all sounds good, right? It is, until you realize that there is only one game mode, so multiplayer gets stale fast and feels like a repetitive level grind or money grab. Furthermore, it takes a while to amass credits to purchase packs, and upgrades are randomly awarded in the packs. It isn't too bad to unlock the basic high-level weapons, but the chance of getting the ultra-rare weapons (the most powerful and fun weapons to wield) is EXTREMELY low. It is not worth your time to "farm" (do the same thing over and over to earn credits) in order to fish for these randomly-awarded ultra-rare items. And there are a number of bugs that need addressing, like certain passive character abilities or weapon mods not doing a thing and a Vanguard glitch that sometimes makes the class get stuck in a level, rendering you useless for the battle. These things make for a poorly-delivered multiplayer experience. Multiplayer DLC, which is luckily free, places new characters and weapons in packs and makes them available as random rewards. While this adds variety, the single game mode and the randomness of item unlocking will still tick you off. I do have to give BioWare a little credit for trying to patch the game and for weekly-implemented game balance changes that buff or nerf weapons and abilities in order to give players a better all-around experience, but the game is incomplete, many of the balance changes are questionable, and I can't get over the painful random number generator system that may or may not reward you with an upgrade when you make a purchase with the in-game credits that you accrue.If you love the Mass Effect universe, definitely get this game and test out multiplayer, just expect repetition and don't expect game-of-the-year-quality work.
LOVE IT. Buy it. the multiplayer is really a whole new exp. and a very addictive one, and if you have mass effect one and two or you have those or played them.. this is a must have. Single player alone is incredible and the multiplayer makes it great to play with friends and make new ones across the globe and there are so many free DLC's for it as well. Just Great. One of the best series ever made.. buy ME 1, 2, and 3.. you will be happy.I played 2 first then played 1. then I played 2 again and then 3.  The reason I Played 2 again after 1 is because your decisions carry over from each game..almost ever single decision you make from the beginning of Mass Effect 1 to the end of 3 have and effect and carry over through games. I thought that was amazing and something that no game has ever done. They are all different games and play styles but combined one great storyline.  and what i mean by they are all different is that its not like you are playing the same game 3 times. Your playing 3 games with a different set of components and gameplay style. I edited this to try to give more detail but if you have any questions ask.MASS EFFECT BUY THEM ALL. they are great.. just trust me.
I cannot see anything less than 4 stars because every single aspect of the game was just so much fun and well put...until the end.  I completed the game 2 day ago and at first I was disappointing with the ending.  After a couple of days of letting it set in I start to understand the ending and go along with it.  Underneath I will talk about stuff that include spoilers but for now I won't.  The story is just great, there are decisions you make that can effect if some people live or die.  The game starts off with an epic moment and even Cerberus pulls of an epic moment.  The final battle was tense...even on normal difficulty.********SPOILERS- The ending at first was a big disappointment.  To see everything I have done in ME1 and ME2 to transfer over to ME3 and then see Shepard get killed for doing Paragon is just sad.  For me when the Normandy was flying away from the blast and landed on the island I got more to see than others.  Others only see the ship door start to open and that's it.  For me it showed Joker, Liara, Garus, and several others walk out of the ship alive and well and look out at the forest of the planet they just landed on.  I for one hope that upcoming DLC add to the ending story.  I would love to know what happened to the people that are still alive, I would love to see what the remaining crew does, I would just love to have had a different ending where Shepard was still alive and kicking it with Liara...my romance.  With the relays destroyed how to the allied fleets get back home? Just fly for many years until they reach home?The ending at first also killed replay value...at first.  Now that it has sunken into me I feel like I can play the game again. I know there is a secret scene that shows a body lying in ruble with the N7 logo on the uniform taking a breathe and then the scene just cuts out.  I assume this is the renegade option for Shepard when things blow up.  Who knows.  I really really just hope that this isn't the end of these characters. Mass Effect is NOTHING without them...especially Liara.  She still has another 900 years in her life, I'd like to be able to control her at least in the next Mass Effect.READ THIS FORUM PAGE [...]This part is vital to make us believe that we really think this last part was all a dream.  What this is basically saying that when you were hit by the beam you were knocked out.  Then the following scenes ended up having you make 3 choices.  If you let the Reapers live, you have been indoctrinated and you do not wake up.  If you follow the plan to destroy the Reapers then you have freed yourself from indoctrination and wake up in a pile of rubble that you were left in when the Harbinger shot the beam at you.  This makes too much sense to not believe it.
Mass Effect series is a very good story.  The first two games were great.  Mass effect 3 is a good game, but just not up to the standard of the first two.  After an annoying 25 digit code you have to enter to get to play the game, you get to wait for a 1.8 GB patch to download.  45 minutes later, i am ready to play.  Just go to the bathroom for the last 10 minutes of the game and the plot will make more sense than the weird virtual child's explanation...
pros:mutli player was goodpackaging was greatcons:-not really alot to say about this game compared to the first two where you can make choices save people or let them die and how the choices you make effect the future game and inside the game itself this does not-big disappointment to trilogy-graphics in the second one was way better than this-it had its bumps throughout the game but was still gonna give it a 4 star till the ending-was a big mass effect fan until i played this hopefully the next one won't be as bad
--Mild spoilers regarding characters, no plot spoilers--This is a remarkable game. The graphics are superb, the voice acting is tremendous, and the story line is compelling. It does not deserve a two star average rating (last week of March). Earth is under attack and you must gather galactic forces to save it. Along the way you must make some truly awful decisions, witness the cost of an awful war, but ultimately prevail against forces that would annihilate all life.First, every decision you make in ME 1 and ME 2 does play out in ME 3: your relationship with Kaidan (or Ashley) is resolved, whether you let Tali take the blame for her father or not, whether you rewrote the Geth base or blew it up, whether you let the Rachni survive or not, whether you let the council survive or not, whether you kept the genophage research or not, whether Wrex survives or not, or whether you saved the collector base or not, etc., etc.Indeed, even smaller decisions make an appearance, like whether you let the Asari at Zhu's Hope survive or not (if you did Zhu's Hope becomes a minor war asset) or whether you let Maelon survive on Tuchanka. The amount of voice acting and dialogue writing to support all of the different (60+) branching outcomes must have taken an enormous amount of time.Every character that has survived from ME 1 and ME 2 makes an appearance in ME 3. You can control many of them for some or most of the game. If you make an effort to visit Kaidan in the hospital the three or four times it takes, he can actually enter your group for the rest of the game (works out to about half the game). Tali enters your group and remains once you get to the Quarians.You work with Thane, Samarra, and Legion on a few things, but you do not control them. Grunt makes an appearance.  Garrus joins you for the whole game and the Shepard-Garrus friendship is rewarding. Liara stays with you the whole game (if she is the shadow broker that is included as well). I am leaving out some, but you get the point.Some gamers have criticized the ending of the game because it does not include what happens to each character in the epilogue.But you do learn what happens to each character and you get to take part. Not one character or choice is left unresolved. Before the final mission a special effort is made to let you check in with many of them.Yet the ending transcends such comparatively small things as Shepard is forced to deal with much more cosmic issues - and I actually found it to be a wonderfully moving conclusion. Like a book or movie Mass Effect tells a story, one which you get to influence but which is nonetheless a story told by its creators. If you think games like Dragon Age, Star Wars, Fable, etc., are any different you are kidding yourself.They should have probably included a postscript about the characters for those who feel like it didn't matter if it is presented during the story instead of the end (truth: it doesn't actually matter at all, its not real), but that would have damaged the sense that Sheperd has entered a realm at the end where the decisions are simply so cosmic that nothing else matters.THE BAD: Multiplayer. Don't get me wrong - I like the multiplayer fine. If you like Horde mode in Gears or firefight in Halo or similar things, you will enjoy this. You get the chance to make multiple characters from different classes and races with a variety of abilities, and buy gear for them.THE MAIN PROBLEM - WARNING - IS THAT YOU MUST PLAY MULTIPLAYER TO GET THE BEST SINGLE PLAYER OUTCOMES. In other words, your multiplayer rating has an impact on the single player game.To add insult to injury, to access the multiplayer requires a code. If you buy this game used you will have to purchase one. Each day your multiplayer score degrades by 1%, so that if you set the game aside for a couple weeks you will have to play a bunch to get your score back up.This is unacceptable and merits a penalty of two stars. I will only penalize it 1.5 stars though, because I feel like this game is getting hit too hard.For those turned off by the other reviews, keep in mind that this game leaves no questions unanswered and resolves every choice you have made in the other games. Every character comes back (except ones that have died, obviously), and you get to see what happens to them all. The ending is not nearly so bad or as brief as everyone says. I strongly recommend giving it a shot.3.5 stars because of multiplayer parameters.-----------Edit -- 4/16 It is interesting to me that so many have treated my review with hostility. Let me ask this question: If you disagree with someone, is their opinion thus without worth or value?Though this is only a video game, those who cannot show respect for other views in something as unimportant as a video game must surely also fail to show respect when it actually does matter. And this is a poor commentary indeed. I got better reviews when reviewing a book on race.
There's a reason why Skyrim despite its innitial bugginess - is still selling for $60, while ME3, has been steadily dropping in price.Is it worth $30?If you actually enjoy multiplayer? Yes.If you like third person shooters with a bit of a story? Probably.If you are already a fan of the series and have played the first 2 games? Maybe.Otherwise? not really.Endings are not the only issue with the game. Unlike previous installments, the game features extensive amount of auto dialogue, graphics are glitchy, plot is extremely linear (previous installments had a certain degree of linearity, but you still had some choice of mission order - this game is basically DA2 in that regard - you don't get to chose and even side missions have to be completed in specific order, otherwise they disappear/affect results of main missions adversely), side quests are repetitive and N7 missions are multiplayer maps in a single player setting, character interaction has seen both a minor improvement AND a dive in quality at the same time. Everything is basically a binary toggle. Animations in some ways have gotten better, in others, have gotten horribly worse. clipping is still an issue. Your choices don't really matter.As for the endings? Not only do they contradict the entirety of the lore from the rest of the 100+ hours of the trilogy, there's barely any difference in their execution, whether you played terribly, or were a completionist with an import. Very minor changes to cutscenes (the color of the explosions), but that's about it. They are very much based on "rule of cool". Think Michael bay trying to do existentialism, but resorting to explosions anyways. If you want to see the "best" ending - you have to play multiplayer, or inflitrator/datapad app. It is impossible to get with single player alone.For PC players it is even worse. If you have the PC version you will need to install and run origin at all times (and btw - if you try to run it offline mode, it will not register your DLC's, if you have them. Every time you start a new character - you have to start it online for your game to apply DLC's to it. "Always On" DRM schemes are the bane of PC gaming. EA & Ubisoft need to stop using them.Gameplay has seen some improvement from previous 2 installments, so if you are in it for that - this may be a game for you. Otherwise? Its the worst installment of the trilogy.3 Star Fun Game-1 for Terrible Ending-1 for DLC Abuse= 1 Star Review
Finally, the game fans have been waiting on for years. While hearing about the day one DLC and the multiplayer I was worried that the single play may have been sacrificed, but I'm glad I was wrong. I had fun playing the game, and still find myself playing the multiplayer of this game. One of the coolest things they did is tie in a bunch of the books/comics into the game story.Story:I really enjoyed the story and finding out the effect some of your decisions in previous games really made this a great narrative. Along with that, the decisions you make in this game have a lasting impact and I was presented with some of the hardest decisions to make ever in a video game. It's a really dark game and the story reflects that wonderfully.War Assets is new to the Mass Effect franchise and it's basically a pooling of all the resources, people, ships, intel etc that you have collected that will help in your fight. If you don't play the multiplayer you will get a 50% reduction in your overall score, which can really cut it close to being at full readiness if you rent or buy this game used.In between missions and objectives your crew sometimes moves around the Normandy and actually have conversations with other crew members, instead of standing in one spot the entire time. This makes the ship feel alive and that your members are having lives when you are not there to babysit them.On top of all that, you have a ton of side missions that help you gather more military strength. While they are fetch quests at heart, they can be missable if you're not carefully and most have a pretty cool backstory to them. Also, every few missions or so you are presented with a situational weapon that can mix things up and sometimes used in more ways than killing your enemies.Gameplay:Bioware has finally perfected the gameplay of the two games in this one. We have the customization from the first game mixed in with the action feel of the second. They included a ton of guns in every specialization (SMG, Sniper rifle, etc). Each gun can have two attachments that can reduce recoil or increase the damage of the weapon. Every class can use any weapons, but more powerful weapons weigh more, which reduces your skill recharge rate, and with skills you can carry more weight without loss.In singleplayer they brought back the same classes as Mass Effect 2 had with some improvements to the quality of them. The max level in this game is back at 60(as I it should be when dealing with Mass Effect) and each class has a ton of skills to choose from. Along with that you get to choose an additional skill to level up that comes from your companion's main skill (So if you're a soldier you can choose to get Slam, a biotic skill). Each class its own Heavy melee attack animation as well (Soldier has an Omni-Blade stab, while Biotics get a falcon punch style attack).Planet scanning is back and it's really improved this time around. Instead of scanning each planet for multiple resources, you fly around using left trigger to scan the system itself for planets or debris for items, which can make your presence know to the reapers. On 360 they added quick saving into the game (Back button) which is something I've wanted to happen for console games.Multiplayer has the same classes, but with only 4 abilities that you can level up to the max of 20. In order to get weapons, equipment and other usable items like Medi-Gels you have to buy trading card-ish booster packs that give you uncommon/rare/ultra chances the higher up you go. While this is a cool alterative to getting weapons and what not, it gets annoying since non-human races have to be unlocked the same way.Six maps are included with the game (taking place in different parts of the galaxy and are the layout is the same as some of the N7 missions). Three enemies Cerberus, Geth and the Reapers are able to fight you on any of the maps and each is really unique. While the ground troops are basically the same, the harder enemies vastly differ.Cerberus has Atlas (giant human controlled robots), people with shields, powerful turrets, snipers and samurai-ish warriors. Geth have Primes (giant Geths), Rocket Troopers, Hunters (invisible shotgun wielders), and Pyros (flamethrowers). Finally the reapers have Ravagers, Brutes, and banshees. They all react differently (Geth and Cerberus take cover, Reapers rush you) and with each difficulty (Bronze, Silver, Gold) they get increasingly harder and more of the tougher enemies can appear at once. Granted this is just Horde Mode but I'm having fun with it, but It is a mode to play with friends and not by yourself.While Bioware said it does not have impacts to the story, it actually really does. You start out with 50% Galactic readiness and it cuts your Military strength in half and the only way to get to 100% is to play multiplayer. Each day/restart of the game takes away 1-2% so you will need to be constantly playing multiplayer to keep 100%. While normally I would be fine with this, but its tied down to an online pass so those who can't play online/buy it used will be at a significant disadvantage. Not to mention those who only care for single player.Soundtrack:Man was the music really awesome in this game. Ever since I watched the trailers main theme I just knew it would be good, and I was right. You can pick out themes from Mass Effect 1 and 2 in some of them, and if you played those games if you feel a sense of De ja vu while hearing it. Mass Effect defiantly has some of the best Sci-fi music around. Weapons/Biotics/Tech all sound great and didn't really notice wrong with them.The voice acting is still just as awesome as the previous installments, and the main character voice actors stay the same. I was never really taken out with pointless dialogue, or bad voice acting or anything like that. One complaint I do I have, as do many is Diana Allers (Jessica Chobot). She didn't really have that important of a role and you could kick her off the Normandy at any time, but her voice just annoyed me and I'm pretty tolerant when it comes to actors. It just felt forced, and I like to hear about the little news segments around the galaxy so I visited her a lot.Graphics:Best graphics for a Mass Effect game yet. All the weapons have great animations, the Biotics look really awesome, and the combat drones look way better in this game. The faces look upgraded and I think they look the best so far. The random planets you go to just look beautiful. Some of the best looking sky and outside graphics I have seen in a while. The enemies are well designed and really creepy at times.Verdict:I had a lot of fun with majority of this game and I'm still playing the multiplayer with my friends. The gameplay is really fun, soundtrack is great and the graphics are top notch. I enjoyed most of the story, the music, soundtrack and I recommend at least a rental if you're interested in trying this game. It was a powerful, awesome, and amazing rollercoaster ride to the finish and its one I'm glad I took.~ Written: March, 2012Positives:* Decisions that matter* Dark story* Hard decisions* Situation weapons* Quicksaving on consoles* Lots of class diversity* Really fun gameplay* Avatar awards* Blasto 6* Best graphics yetNegatives:* Disc swapping* Multiplayer required for 100% rediness but is tied down to online pass.* Still can't use Makos* Diana Allers
Just FYI I LOVED the first 2 Mass Effects played ME1 over 15 times all the way through(admittedly at least 5 were rush jobs where I paid no attention to anything haha) and ME2 over 8 times. Also for those who don't now what I mean about Obsidian. They are the company that made Knights of the Old Republic 2, sequel to Bioware's first massively successful game that led them to making Mass Effect in the first place. They also made Alpha Protocol, which in many many ways seems to rip off ideas directly from Mass Effect 1, from the way the accuracy of weapons work to conversations and general theme of multiple endings and game elements based on you the player's choices.Mass Effect 3 seems very unfinished and makes things like Deus Ex seem perfect. Don't get me wrong I like Deus Ex but it was a mish mash of unfinished ideas. Anyway some examples are: clipping errors. Sometimes I find myself standing inside of a box or halfway into a wall. Not a big problem but makes me fully aware I am playing a game. In other words, I'm not immersed in the beautiful world they've made when I don't seem to really be a part of it haha. Plenty of random people walking around on the Citadel for instance also get stuck on a wall or in a pose and still move forward it looks silly and like an old PS1 game or something xD.And I know I'm not the only one who noticed the conversations in this game seem like they took the first draft and never did retakes or something. Sometimes people say things with wrong emphasis or even bad translation. Which doesn't make sense to me isn't Bioware an American company? An early example is when they are carting Kaiden off to Huerta Hospital the first visit to the Citadel in the game. Shepherd asks where they are taking him. One of the people says:"Where to Huerta Memorial" all in one breath like that first "Where" wasn't a question at all. One time recently I was talking to that reporter lady and she said something that wasn't even a sentence, sorry I can't remember it though.Now all of this definitely takes away from the excellent story feel of the previous Mass Effects that was glorious at least to me, but even worse is now the A.I. is god awful. Your allies were never very intelligent in any of them but now they reach an all-time low. I watched my 2 allies leaning out of cover to shoot one or 2 shots when they have an assault rifle they should be shooting a whole clip, and they miss those 2 shots I can't even tell where they were trying to aim. They also get shot to death very easily even on low difficulties which is bad because they are covering my 6 so if they go down the enemy that killed them immediately destroys my backside. "sigh"The enemy A.I. is pretty bad too, at times it is worse than my allies. The first fight you have with a Brute enemy in the game, for instance. The Brute was a scary and cool new enemy, and the fight was ruined and I was no longer excited when it rushed to a small corner where one of my allies was and got stuck there, making it a joke to defeat as it could not even move. The only real challenge with the normal enemies(i.e. Cerberus soldiers) are the unlimited grenades they get to throw at you. This is a very old game mechanic from the first 1st person shooters ever. Enemies get infinite grenades and you get only a few IF you are even using a class with that ability and if you level it up at all. Unfair and stupid. AND worse is how many enemies in ME3 that throw constant smoke grenades making it impossible to see them. I find myself staying in cover bored to death waiting for the smoke to clear which takes a good 20 seconds give or take. Either that or rushing through smoke out of frustration to take my chances in close range against the enemies. Lucky I'm not playing on Insanity.3 or 4 times I have completed a side quest where normally I would have credits or an item to give someone on Citadel, but got nothing. It just didn't pop up and I got nothing for going so far out of my way. Now this is downright unforgivable from a company like Bioware whose games are supposed to be among the finest and most polished. There are a few more conversation glitches like people warping away from the screen during a convo. once again making the whole thing feel fake. It's like they rushed ME3 out the door. If they had spent just one more year the game could have been up to ME2 and ME1 standards, at least. Some of these problems may be patched, I hope so, but the fact is ME2 and ME1 had none of these problems and needed no patches from release. And quite a few of these problems are things that probably can't be patched like the grenade problem and A.I. just being dumb. I'm not sure what others see in this sequel to a thus far amazing story that keeps them saying this is a worthy sequel, but I can't even stay engaged in the story because of all these problems. SORRY this was so long I really wanted to vent.But in conclusion ratings would be like this: Mass Effect 1 gets 9.5/10 Mass Effect 2 gets 8.5/10 Mass Effect 3 gets 5/10 That's right and I'm being generous. If Mass Effect 3 were the first in the series I'd played it would get a 3/10. But I feel emotionally attached to these people and events now from the first 2 so as a sequel I give it more than a standalone game. Oh and for Mass Effect 2 if you think I rated it too low its not because I thought it was WORSE than Mass Effect 1, but it was shorter. ALOT shorter, and had no adventuring all over planets with the Mako. This was arguably a pretty tedious and pointless thing from the first Mass Effect, but for those who liked it even a little, it added quite a few hours to the game and some cool environments. OK DONEEDIT: A FEW SPOILERS DOWN HERE(Not big ones though, I try to keep it obscure)After finishing the game myself, I know the ending is VERY lackluster and a huge letdown to me. After loving this game series and many characters for 2 games and goodness knows how many hours of my life, Mass Effect 3 ending might as well be Shepherd walking off a cliff falling into a black pit never to be seen again. There are a few ways to do the last moment of the game, but they don't change the ending at all.FINALEThe FINAL choice should be the shining moment of all of Mass Effect. The choice itself is surprising because the war with the Reapers and defeating them being the goal for 3 games is suddenly changed completely. Reminds me of the mind blow Matrix Revolutions movie ending gave me. In other words, a bad surprise. And no matter what you choose, the ending cinematic of the game that happens after you choose is the same no matter what, save one tiny detail. The color of what happens is either red, blue, or green. That's it, the color changes. WOW.Without spoiling too much, I can also confirm that there is no showing the future of all of your allies. There is no talking at all. Just music while all the cinematic is happening. Then after it ends there is a completely generic MANY CENTURIES LATER thing that happens, reminding me of at least 20 Star Trek episodes and maybe a few Twilight Zone's haha. It's only about 2 minutes and doesn't show much, while people who you don't know talk about the adventure you've just had like it's an old, old story. THE END. sigh.CHARACTERSMight as well also mention, if you are a fan of the other 2 Mass Effects like me, you are going to be disappointed on who Bioware decided to leave OFF your team for this one. My favorite character from the ME1 isn't on your team, which was probably the biggest disappointment to me. In fact, your team has only 6 people to choose from, unless you have DLC. Then it is 7. Compared to ME2, this is a small flipping team. Not just small, but the only NEW alien type you get is from DLC only. They added another human of all boring flipping things, but actually have fewer alien types on your crew than the other games. Were there some racists who recently started working at Bioware or something?CONTROLBefore I go on about the A.I. and bad boss fights, let me mention a few really bad changes from Mass Effect 2 that I don't understand. The powers you can use like warp, singularity, concussive shot, whatever you use, that make an arc from you to the enemy. These arcs are now different than in Mass Effect 2. In ME2, you could aim a pretty decent distance away from an enemy, causing your power to do a huge U shape arc that would make it get around any cover the enemy is hiding behind. This was awesome. In Mass Effect 3, you can only aim a few inches away from an enemy before the lock on goes away. So the arc you can make with your power is going to stay small, looking more like a side of an oval than a circle. Then at the last second the power thrusts toward the enemy very quickly. So the shape the whole arc makes is half oval, then a diagonal slant toward the enemy. This means that usually your power will just slam into the cover the enemy is hiding behind, failing completely. HOW FUN!Another change from ME2 is the aiming. It is mostly the same with one major difference that I am seeing in more and more games these days. There is an auto-aim assist that is always on and you cannot turn it off. It's not as pronounced in ME3 as in many games I've played but that actually makes it worse. What it does is this: say you are aiming your gun around an empty area. You move at a steady speed of let's say 5(example). Then an enemy walks into the area, when your crosshairs get about 2 in game feet from the enemy on screen, the speed of your aiming slows to about 3.I'm not sure who in the world this helps. For me this just makes it so that I stop pulling to aim when I think I should be targeting the enemy, only to find that the game slowed me down so now I am still a foot away from the enemy shooting the air. OR if the enemy is on the move running left or right, then the game keeps me from aiming at him because he is moving faster than the aim assist will allow me to aim. THIS is something I am seeing FAR too much in games with shooting, and you CAN'T TURN IT OFF! Why not? What happened to the pre-Xbox 360 era where every game had auto-aim that you could turn on and off?FIGHTSI have already mentioned before the fights in ME3 are the worst by far of the whole series. Later on in the game, there is a new enemy type, and one boss who you fight multiple times, who have swords and can go into superspeed, virtually making them teleport around the room whenever they feel like it, making them the most frustrating fights in the game. The very idea of this type of enemy makes me think Bioware outsourced to crappy 1st person and 3rd person shooter companies and barely made any of this game themselves.I'll remind you here that in both ME1 and ME2 there were no enemies that were downright better than you. They might outnumber you. They might send a big robot or tank after you, but there is no single humanoid before Mass Effect 3 that surpassed Shepherd's potential abilities and added more to them. But here comes Mass Effect 3. The sword boss I mentioned has adept powers that you can never learn, is technologically advanced to go beyond your speed and power and leave you in the dust, and has a sword AND guns. YOU just have guns, you can't go super speed, so how you beat this enemy is basically cheap trickery, luck, and just spamming some of your best moves and running around like a crazy person.This game is full of examples of enemies that can do things you can't. Early on there are the Riot shields, guys who can set up auto-turrets, throw infinite smoke grenades, and have stun rods that nullify your shields. For some reason, you are not allowed to use any of these things. Then they throw in the sword-wielding superspeed using ninjas. You can't use swords. The only melee you have is a little punch and a clumsy heavy melee that takes forever and gets you shot up while you do it. And you definitely can't go any faster than a normal human. Now, there is nothing wrong with games that make you fight superhumans by learning maneuvering and strategy, normally a 1st person shooter. BUT Mass Effect was never one of these games. So why the heck did they think it was OK to change their own formula so drastically.So I finished the game with a Full Paragon run, imported from ME2. I don't know yet if the story would change much based on what I did in Mass Effect 2. If anyone has already done an evil run, especially one where you imported from ME2 having sided with the Illusive Man at the end of the game, I'd be curious if the change is drastic. No SPOILERS, please, unless there really is no change from GOOD guy run other than a few dialogue's. I'm hoping for BIG changes, like Illusive Man being on your side, but I doubt it.
Several nights have been spend going through Bioware's space opera since ME1 & ME2. Each iteration has been transformative to the video game media and spun an awe-inspiring tale. Mass Effect 3 concludes that story and does so in style. The shooting mechanics have been improved, many questions from the series are finally answer, and the conclusion though originally underwhelming....has been fixed and polished with free dlc! don't miss out on the close to our favorite galactic epic of this console generation.
Truth be told. Alot of the bad reviews for this game are knocking the entire experience, making it sound like the game is completely worthless, simply because of the last 10-15 minutes. I'm not defending the ending in ANY way. I hated the ending, it made no sense to me, and raised more questions than actually supplying answers. However, it doesn't change the fact that I was on the edge of my seat for pretty much the entire time up to that point. No, the ending isn't good but to say I didn't have fun playing the game and going with the 1 star protest is just ridiculous. A bad ending does not warrant criticizing the experience as a whole. They have of course announced the "Extended Cut DLC" news, which will apparently clarify what happened in the end, and hopefully it does in fact do that but i'm not getting my hopes up, but until people see what this DLC has in store there's no reason for anyone to be giving an opinion on it. The Mass Effect trilogy, for me, was one of the most gripping and entertaining gaming experiences of this generation. A bad 10-15 minutes does not take away a fantastic 100+ hours. I'm a serious gamer, but also rational. If there were a better ending this would be a 5 star game no doubt. But, I docked one star because the ending was indeed a letdown. The overall experience was great and i'm still a fan of the Mass Effect series and am ready for the next installment, even if Shepard's story is over.
When I attended film school I noticed that my smart teachers stated the same thing: even if your technical skill is flawless it's completely irrelevant when your story is bad. Almost everything depends on the script. In this case, even the technical stuff is off. As I played ME 3 I experienced one minor glitch and three major glitches, which caused me to re-load a save. In ME 2 I experienced 0 glitches.In ME 3, Bioware failed us totally story-wise, so even the beauty of the graphics, its usual good combat platform and great voice acting couldn't save it. I will try not to spoil the story as I outline some of their mistakes. There are mild spoilers, though.To me, the first red flag was raised when I killed an alliance politician who was revealed as a traitor. Although his role in the game was crucial to humanity and forming alliances with alien species, the reaction to his death was muted. It was sort of, "Meh. Stuff happens. Who cares? Moving on..." There was almost no discussion about how his death would affect the already-fragile alliance between humanity and alien species and/or how it might affect the overall plan to defend Earth and other planets from the reapers. People basically said that they knew he was corrupt all along then moved along as if no one needed to fill that vacuum. No one was elected or appointed to replace him. Also, although aliens loved to bicker and try to seize power from humans during all of the ME games even in times of galactic crisis, evidently no other alien species tried to fill the vacuum, seize power and/or direct the movement to defend the galaxy themselves afterward. Ummmm... Alright.I resented that in my particular story I was forced to kill three of my former crewmates and friends. Shepard, who was so good at finessing almost every bad situation in the previous games, is suddenly forced to slaughter anyone who disagrees with him. And a flaw in the story is even revealed when I was forced to kill a character who dates back to the first Mass Effect game: before he died the character informed me that he was tipped off by an informant in my crew. Someone in my crew covertly recorded a conversation. Later, when I finished the game I realized that the informant's identity was never revealed, nor did he/she attempt to sabotage me again after that incident. Bad, bad and more bad.Some of your friends and even lovers just drop out of the picture completely and inexplicably. In my story, I romanced Jack in ME 2. In ME 3 she appears twice: once during a mission then at a bar somewhere. During your final encounter with her you just dance with her then sit down. You explain that you still love her, she states something like, "just wait until this is over," then you never see her again. Although Miranda played a major role in ME 2, she vanishes in a similar manner after you help her defeat a Cerberus base. Horrible stuff, guys.You encounter a small child who dies at the beginning of the game. During most of the game, Shepard obsesses about him and dreams about him, which seems ridiculous. Of the millions of people who have died and the many friends he has lost, he obsesses only about a kid with whom he spoke for less than two(?) minutes. Right. I don't want to spoil the child's role, but so many people have already commented about it so I will state that the child plays a hideously crucial role in determining the end of the game. As other people have noted, he discusses the reapers' role in the same manner that other people and the reapers themselves have explained their role. And it's still idiotic, and Shepard still rejects it. Yet the game assumes that a child is describing it, so maybe it appears better(?). I have no idea.The ending is, of course, a complete and utter abortion. As other people have mentioned, your decisions in the previous games ultimately result in almost nothing. The comrades who you collected in the previous games and ME 3 are reduced to numbers. In the battle that leads up to the non-ending-ending abortion with The Illusive Man and the aforementioned child, although you have united the alien species to fight with you, you see only a couple of cut scenes with them fighting side-by-side. There isn't the sort of epic allied battle with comrades that you can experience in Dragon Age: Origins. There were people who I wanted to see in that battle such as the Zhu's Hope colonists and their leader, who I spared in ME 1. Nope-- they're just a number (30) that is added to my war board assets. YET, although I killed the rachni queen in ME 1 she-- or a cloned version of her or SOMETHING- returned in the middle of the game, and I was forced to battle the rachni again although I made the decision to kill her because.... I knew that such a thing would happen.I'm not even going to describe the ultimate "ending" or whatever that nonsense was because so many people have already described its... mass suckitude... so well. I will just state that the macabre sight of Zombie Shepard and Zombie Anderson in a contrived and poorly-written showdown with The Illusive Man ("WE HAVE MARTIN SHEEN! WE MUST BASE EVERYTHING AROUND HIM AT THE END- EVEN IF IT MUST BLOW... BECAUSE... WE HAVE MARTIN SHEEN!") that ultimately justifies his worse-than-nazi-tactics is enough to ruin the entire trilogy in many or even most people's minds. Yes, it's THAT bad.Ugh.
great game however not as good as the other too but I would still recommend it if you want to finish the series otherwise just play one and two
Don't need to expand much on the game, the top review is very thorough. The gameplay of ME3 is quite similar to ME2, which is a good thing. I knew that people were disappointed with the ending before I started my ME3 playthrough, and I told myself that no matter what the ending was, I couldn't be too disappointed since the game itself has been so fun to play.Boy, was I wrong.I can't even justify or rationalize my feelings, I just know that the ending to ME3 has completely killed my desire to finish my second playthough (finished ME1 again just prior to release of ME3.) The entire series is built on choice and consequence. Each chapter of the Mass Effect saga contains difficult decisions which you then see play out... except in Mass Effect 3. There are decisions, but no consequence. No epilogue, no conclusion, no closure. Just the same ending that EVERYONE ELSE gets, even if they played the game completely different than you.Prior to finishing Mass Effect 3, I would've told you that I could play ME1/2 at least 4 or 5 times through, because of the fun gameplay and the variety of options available. But after finishing ME3, I'm not sure I will ever touch the series again, because in the end it just doesn't matter.
I have played most of this game and what I played of it was great. I am starting to think while writing this that I might have to finish this game up.
You can read anywhere else people's thoughts on the single player experience of ME3.When I first heard Mass Effect would add multiplayer, I was worried we would get a tacked on experience that added little to the game (e.g., Tomb Raider 2013, Far Cry 3). Instead, the class and weapon unlock system worked kinda like a Collectible Card Game, where items were given rarity statuses and you unlocked by playing more. It also helped that the multiplayer was as tight as the single player.Learning combos and powers was one of the best experiences I've had in the game. I'm glad I was there for the peak of the game, but I know as of this writing (May 2013) that the servers are still populated.
First off let me say I am not even going to talk about the ending since it has pretty much been talked to death already.What I loved about the game was seeing all of the characters from ME1 and ME2 show up also they did a pretty good job on the combat. However I didn't understand why they mostly focused on combat when mass effect is suppose to mainly be a rpg.What I didn't like was that they took out some of the characters I would liked to have on my squad like grunt, wrex and miranda and stick you with a muscle head like vega. Also it seemed like even though there were fewer characters you couldn't interact with them as much as you could in the last two games. The combat was good but the cover system sucks. Even when I was hiding behind a full wall I was still getting shot. I also didn't like the quest log and the way they took out all the interaction with the quest givers. You mainly just run by and overhear a conversation and that's how you get quests. Your quest log is pretty much a mess in this game and not like the last two where everything was nice and sorted. I was annoying with the planet scanning and reaper chase mini game. Plus fighting the same mobs over and over again. The last two had variety like krogan, asari, turain , human as well as rachi. In this one it mostly felt like I was fighting cerbus and repear mobs over and over again.That is just a few of the things I didn't like about this game. I could go on but everyone has pretty much heard about how it didn't seem like mass effect at all and instead just a rush job. All in all I would just recommend waiting until the price drops and all this mess about the ending and dlc passes by before you buy this game.
You know that feeling you get after finishing a good book, or watching the last episode of your favorite TV series? Now imagine the ending leaves you heartbroken, and that's basically how you'll feel after completing the game; however, this should not discourage you from playing it. There's an old saying that the journey is more important than the destination, and this game is a good example. Even though the ending will probably leave you in tears (of anger or sadness remains to be seen), that's only the last 20 minutes or so of a 30+ hour game. I'd say that 29 hours 40 minutes of pure unadulterated fun is worth that 20 minutes of weeping in the corner. This game is definitely worth more than the 2 1/2 stars it's been given. The fact that such a big deal is made about the ending just shows how attached you'll get to every aspect of this game. It will consume you heart and soul. Only something truly grand will do that, and this game is as grand as they come.What I like:Updated power system. Upped from four levels to six in terms of upgradeable skillsBetter graphics. The previous title was no slouch, but this takes the cakeGreat plot line. The ending could have been handled better, but the storyline is still captivatingSeamless control. Like the previous games, I very much like how the controls are laid out, everything just fitsWhat I don't like:Mining. Unlike in the last installment, you no longer need to mine resources. Instead you locate war assets, which is made difficult by the fact you have to constantly watch your backThe upgrade system. In this title, you pay to upgrade your weapon (max level 5) and can equip just two modifications. Previously you could research an upgrade that would enhance all weapons of a certain type, and you didn't have to choose just two enhancements.Limited locations. Unlike the last game where you could scan a planet and stumble upon a side-quest, this game really gives you no reason to explore the galaxy beyond mining for war assets. Plus, you are limited to the Citadel in terms of where to find shops. No Illium, Tuchanka, or Omega type bases.This is a five star game, but because it ripped my heart out I'm giving it four.(but really, it's a five. Just prepare yourself for emotional ruin)
I have to say this was an amazing game and series, I finished in 27 hours and did everything...60 hours was not possible as I see it...which is what they claimed.  Story was great, ending could have been a bit better and I did finish feeling a bit empty.  I wish you could have used more characters..I mean come on let me play with a krogen. I wish the Kinnect feature worked but honestlyI tried and never got it to function as promised...if you turn off the sound off it works, but if you are like me and have your stereo on while playing the kinnect there is to much background noise in order to work, infact sometimes it will chose options you did not want.  Over all worth a rental or a buy then sell.
I have played and loved the Mass Effect games since Mass Effect 1.  Great game, great story, great characters, great interactions.  I pre-ordered Mass Effect 3 and had been anticipating it for a LONG time since Mass Effect 2.  I started playing the game and loved it.  Great visuals, great dialog (OK, 95% great but given the limits of the game, the 5% that stumbles is easily forgivable).  This game was supposed to bring closure to the series.  The entire series was about choice and how your choices as the lead character actually matter and affect the ultimate ending.  I played Mass Effect 1 6 times.  I played Mass Effect 2 8 times.  I fully expected to play and replay Mass Effect 3 at least a similar number of times, importing variations of my character for each replay and trying different things out.  The fighting is rock solid (though difficult on a PC because they poorly ported it from a !@#@@$ console game and stuck your space bar with way too many tasks to handle well, so it leads to some problems but still, great gameplay, great music, great sound effects.  Then you get to the ending.  THE ending.  One ending that varies ever so slightly among 3 "choices".  You go from a multitude of choices in ME1 to ME2, all supposedly cascading and building upon each other into three and then they all collapse into the same ending with 3 slight variations, all of them bad.  Worse, the ending is like a fever dream, violates logic both in game and out of game, and renders your EVERY choice up to that point totally irrelevant.  This game is to be played once and only once to a totally disappointing (devastating for those of us who have come to know and LOVE the series) end.  Like many, I can't even find any enthusiasm now to replay the previous 2 games because...well, what's the point?  Basically, if you want to play this game wait until it is only $19 or so and buy it used/secondhand.  It is NOT worth $30, $40, or higher.  The Collector's Edition is an even worse waste of money.  Seriously.  Such potential and so many promises from the developer (Bioware) all tossed in the trash along with any goodwill the fanbase once had.
I've played all three and all of them are great.Outstanding story (should make a movie of this), spectacular graphics, inmmersive campaing  were decisions matter.Voice  command is really a welcome feature during combat for strategic attacks (must have a kinect for this)I'm not a game critic, but these games are one of the best third person action RPG (my own classification I guess) out there. There's replay value on this brand were you can take several ways to the end.Haven't finish the game though, so not sure if I will love this &#34;final chapter&#34; ending....Highly recommended if you are looking for this type of genre with lenghty campaing.
Mass Effect 3 relies on drama, nostalgia, and improved gameplay to end the epic trilogy.  It deserves to go down as one of the best Sci-Fi trilogies of our generation, but it's got a few issues.Story:  8/10Throughout the story, there is a dark sense of drama, and an overt feeling of impending doom!  Reapers have invaded the galaxy and they are intent on wiping out all non-synthetic organisms, so all of the races you have encountered in ME1 and ME2 face genocide.  The Reapers begin their attack on Earth and as the humans quickly realize, they're outmatched.  Lucky for us, there's a Halo Device called the Crucible that will destroy the Reapers!  Commander Shepard must assemble his crew and search the galaxy for allies for the war and engineers who can activate the Crucible.  Cerberus is also after the Crucible and they're battling Shepard's crew along the way.  On the quest, Shepard will make many difficult choices regarding who lives or who dies, and some of these are painful.Graphics: 9/10The characters and cutscenes are great!  The environments are on par with ME2 (great), but some are lacking a bit.  The enemy designs and visual FX really bring the battles to life.Gameplay: 8.5/10The basic game flow goes like this - Start on Ship, Search Galaxy Map for Quests, Fly there, Play a Mission (A battle in the Unreal Engine), Return to Ship, Talk to Characters about it, Repeat!The Main Quests are marked on the Galaxy Map.  In order to begin one, you just fly to the planet and land on it.  From there, you pick your squad.  In a few story related missions, one squad member is automatically chosen for you.  You want to pick a squad that best combats the enemies you'll be fighting or pick a character with biotic powers and another with mechanical powers to balance your squad.  You can upgrade Shepard's armor to give him boosts to offense or defense, and you can choose the guns for your squad members.  Shepard can carry up to 5 different gun types:  Pistol, SMG, Assault Rifle, Shotgun, or Sniper Rifle.  But the heavier the combined weight of the guns, the longer it takes for his powers to recharge.  So, do you want more firepower or more special powers?Everyone levels up when Shepard levels up, and you assign points to all of the character's skill trees to unlock or boost their powers.The quests are usually battles similar to Gears of War encounters.  Enemies charge you and you can use your weapons and powers to stop them.  You can take cover behind objects and roll.  At first, the cover mechanic feels really strange.  I found myself rolling by accident, then pressing A to take cover, then have it not work, so I double tap A, then Shepard takes cover, and jumps out of cover to get shot in the face and die.  After a few battles, I did get the hang of it.The guns do damage, and the powers either debuff enemies, attack them with a damage type, summon a drone, or get enemies to fight on your side.  Success in battle is largely determined by your aim and using the right powers against enemies.  The game is pretty easy on normal mode, and on the harder difficulties, you'll really need to strategically use the damage types.Powers and Weapons: 7/10Upgrading the Powers is very simple.  There are 6 levels of each power and 1 or 2 choices on each path.  So you may unlock a biotic attack, and for an upgrade, you can choose to do concentrated damage to 1 enemy or have a wider area of effect.The guns are pretty bad.  There are many weapons in the game, and each can be upgraded 4 times.  But it is really hard to tell which guns will best suit you.  One frustrating thing is that you cannot see how one type of shotgun compares to the other shotguns while you are upgrading it.  So you may have a cool shotgun that you like, and then you'll spend money to upgrade your new shotgun 5 times and realize it's not as good as the one you are using.  And there's no way to get your credits back.  Also, some assault rifles are full auto, while others are burst fire.  It doesn't tell you this on the equip screen.  There are just bar graphs on Damage, Capacity, Fire Rate, etc...  It would have been great to show the Player the max attributes of a weapon in a different color on the bar graph.Each gun can carry 2 modifiers, that improve accuracy, clip size, weapon capacity, etc...This helps you balance out the gun's deficiencies.One really nice feature is that Shepard can earn Reputation Points by acting favorably with a crew member.  Once Shepard does this, he can add their powers to his own and upgrade them.  So, if Tali likes Shepard, he can use her Summon Combat Drone ability.  If Liara likes him, he can use Singularity. Etc.The Endings: 6/10I don't want to spoil the ending, so I won't talk about what actually happens.  Instead, I'll just point out the mistakes on a conceptual level.Note:  My expectations were so low for the ending, I thought Commander Shepard was going to slip on a banana peel, fall out of an airlock, then get probed by space monkeys.  As he pounds on the glass, space monkey giggles and Uranus jokes are overheard while circus music plays in the background.The War Asset Meter:Every Quest that you do, fills this meter.  There is a minimum line on it and that's pretty much it.  You can also fill this meter by playing lots of multiplayer.  It doesn't make sense, but it sorta gives players a reason to try it.  If you fill it all the way, you get a very minor tweak to the ending, but the game doesn't tell you that.  Most people just partially fill the bar by doing the main quests and that's it.The Choice!In the end, you are presented with 3 choices.  There is a blue switch, a column of light, and a red switch.  But there is no confirmation on what switch does what, or what happens when you jump into the light.  The game really needed confirmation text, "Pressing this will destroy the Reapers.", Option 2, Option 3...The way the ending was originally edited, it was choppy and confusing.  Parts of it also made no sense and there was almost no mention of Shepard, a character that you've been playing for 6 years!  In the Extended Versions, they added some more scenes and some voice overs.  They're better, but not great.Basically, if you want to make an artsy ending or a cerebral ending that makes people think, do it in an epilogue.  Make the regular ending a payoff.  Remember when Luke Skywalker blew up the Death Star?  That was gratifying!  That makes the audience feel good!  Mass Effect 3's ending is confusing about how you get each one and when you see it, it raises more questions.Sound: 10/10+The sound effects, music, and voice acting are awesome!Maturity: MThis is rated M for sexual situations, violence, and language.  It's a lot like an Rated R action film.Replay Value / Multiplayer: 8/10You can play the game over and get different endings, different romances, and choose to ally yourself with different races.  You can also play on the harder difficulties and try battling through the levels with different squad members.  Each pass through takes about 20-30 hours, depending on the difficulty level and the number of side quests that you do.Fails:(Side Quest Logs - There aren't any.  If you meet someone at the citadel and they say, "I can help you if you find the lost artifact of Gormic for me."  You can search the galaxy and scan planets to get it.  But when you find it, you aren't sure who needs it.  You just find an artifact and you know someone that you met in the past wanted it.  This game would have been better you could look up - "Artifact G - for Fred, Citadel Hospital," so you didn't have to wander around as much.Other fails, I already noted:  Cover, Gun Upgrades, and triggering the Ending.Overall:  8/10Flaws aside, this is a really good game that is part of an amazing trilogy.  The world that Bioware created is incredible.  All of the different alien races, their cultures, their religions, and how they interact is mind-blowing.  It also makes you think about the human race in relation to the vast and infinite universe.  The combat is fun and tactical, the characters are memorable, the story is dramatic / universal in scope, and you'll feel emotional about parts of it.  Sure this game could have been much better, but overall, it's really good!Buy it if you love the series, and please understand that the endings are better.Buy it if you love sci-fi and like themes about man's role in the universe.Rent it if you have 20-30 hours for one play through.Avoid it if you want a Commander Shepard Centric Ending.Avoid it if you didn't like the other games in the series.
Like others, I'm ticked off that there doesn't seem to be an ending to my game. I replayed the very end 3 different times because I thought surely I had chosen the 'wrong' ending, the one that's supposed to be bittersweet and never give you a conclusion.Instead, I was rewarded with the same scene three times.I did make the wrong choice though. I bought the game pre-ordered instead of waiting for it to hit the $20 bargain bin.
Many of the people who gave this game bad reviews don't seem to appreciate the game for what it truly was. Mass Effect since the first one was always an RPG-Shooter hybrid whose gameplay has been compared to that of Gears of War, rather than the mindless boring and repetitive recent CoD games. I absolutely love this game and I am currently on my 3rd play through since I haven't unlocked all the achievements. The Collectors Edition was hands down WORTH EVERY PENNY.For anyone who hated the ending, that is your problem, most people expected it to happen anyways.For those who flamed the Galactic Readiness feature, and claim its not possible to get the neutral or good ending clearly did something wrong. It is VERY easy to get either ending, WITHOUT ever having to resort to the multiplayer. I did, and I had a readiness value of 4000+ in my second playthrough, WITHOUT ever touching the multiplayer ( i would LOVE to start playing the MP but my Live Gold membership expired and I haven't gotten around to renewing ).The graphics, story and overall combat is exciting and immersive enough to keep a person entertained fully for a few days.I will admit however, that there were a few times when the game did lag heavily or frame, but i believe this was a problem for all platforms (my brother owns it for his PC and his PC is pretty highspec yet still gets some frame issues. Even friends of mine who have it for PS3 said it occurred a lot for them. So maybe sometime a patch could fix this, regardless it is something i can ignore.One last thing I should mention, and I wont call it a con but it upset me to some extent: my first playthrough was to experience the default story without use of my previous saves, and what i did find that annoyed me was that my favorite characters who I expected to run several side missions and main story objectives were DEAD! yes DEAD!Anyways I have run out of things to say (for the time being) but I HIGHLY recommend that everyone should play this series. It has evolved quite a lot from the first one and it does sadden me that the series has come to an end.
Great way to end a story, I prefer how it ended then how fans demanded. Hero dies for peace in the Galaxy, who can't like that ending (apparently ever person other than me). Great graphics with in depth game play. Also first Mass Effect to have multi-player which is really fun. Fun game, really good space story game.
Mass Effect 1 was a good game!Mass Effect 2 was a great game!!!Mass Effect 3 is a complete snoozefest...The Good:Voice acting, art direction and music!!!The Disappointing:Mass Effect 3 has been dumbed down way to much. Exploration is nearly non-existent (think Final Fantasy XIII) and the length of actual missions, once you are out of the initial linear corridor, are severely shortened. The whole game feels like a lazy screen writers to-do checklist than an interactive adventure.The Bad:I have ran into no less than three glitches during different missions that require reloading the previous save / auto-save to activate a scripting trigger allowing the game to progress. Two glitches when coming out of cut-scenes where Cmd. Shepard takes a fixed snow-angel stance and is unable to select weapons, shoot or use powers... sliding around like a stand up snow-angel is rather humorous though.The Lazy:Rendering glitches like 145degree rotated heads, missing heads, and disjointed / bent backwards fingers, arms and legs are just lazy programming now that we are in the third and final sequel. The lack of attention to the volume of voices is unforgivable. It is often impossible to hear what some npcs you directly talking to are saying, but the ones that are having semi-random conversations as you walk by overpower everything in the soundtrack.The Conclusion:I have yet to finish Mass Effect 3 (just started the Cerberus Assault mission) and I can say that the only reason that I have pushed myself this far is that I want to see how this series ends, but from what I have heard / read even that sounds to be a huge disappointment.Even for those that want to see how it ends I would wait for this to hit the bargain bins or at the very least pick it up used.
This game was awful.  Most people gave it a high positive rating for playability, and two stars or less for the ending.  I beg to differ.  To quick sum:PRO:1. Combat slightly more challenging than ME2 (which was a cakewalk)2. Far less "scanning" of planets, a huge plus!3. JamesCON:1. Less squad members.2. Team from ME2 totally broken up.  What the heck?!? James is a great heavy, but he does NOT make up for my smaller and less versatile team.3. Miranda not on team. Only a complaint from my perspective, since she was my love interest in previous game. Her low involvement in the story and absence from my squad really horked me, though.  I spent half the game waiting for the chance to add her to my team and was very unhappy when I realized it wasn't happening.4. Almost no neutral options.  Every choice gives you paragon/renegade points. This makes it impossible to play a really pure renegade/paragon. In the previous installments, you could always go neutral if your paragon or renegade choice seemed bad or silly. Most of the time, it didn't really matter anyway.  Now, almost EVERYTHING you say or do gives paragon or renegade points. You can't save certain allies without going paragon.  You can't disagree with certain tactical decisions without going renegade.  Very frustrating.5. Biggest problem of all.  FETCH QUESTS!  That's all most of your ally/resource gathering amounts to. Go to Citadel. Get mission from random hobo on street. Go to system/planet.  Scan.  Go back to Citadel and give hobo what you found.  Get new army/fleet/upgrade/war material in exchange.  Rinse.  Repeat.  Puke.  It would be less crappy if you actually got some boots on ground missions.  But, next CON...6. Less boots on ground exploration. Much less.7. SHORT!  Finish in a weekend of fairly dedicated play.  By contrast, I could geek out on other games for at least a couple of weeks.  Now I suppose I'd get nickle and dimed with DLC...if the game was interesting enough to pay for that.  Hint: it isn't.8. On XBOX (not sure about other platforms/computer): To disc game.  Constantly having to switch between discs while playing.  For what you actually get in the game, I have a hard time seeing why I need to switch between discs again and again and again.9. The ending.  Oh Lord, the ending!  It's an insult.  It doesn't even make sense (SPOILER: what the hell is Joker doing in an alien system at the end?  Wasn't he in the battle over Earth like, two minutes before that?  When did my other squadmembers, who were fighting with me or leading other assets on the ground, suddenly get onboard the Normandy?  Did they beam up, Star Trek style? Poorly thought out crap).I really COULD go on.  This game is not worthy of the Mass Effect name.  I'm sure some stuff will be altered or added to in DLC, but when I shell out 60 bucks I want a good game NOW, not later at additional cost.  I won't be bothering with this game any further.  Very disappointing as the end of a series I really loved and was heavily into.  NOT RECOMMENDED.
The game is awesome. The series is amazing.  Laugh at the whiners and then play this gem, and then laugh at them some more.
1) I only paid $16.01 for the game. So, for that price alone, and the 45 hours of entertainment it provided me... it doesn't suck.2) Since I didn't spend the last 10 years of my life thinking, plotting, planning, discussing, developing, writing, producing, directing, drawing, coloring, animating, programming, editing, testing, managing, composing music,  arranging music, recording music, singing songs, praticing, localizing, doing voice over work, translating, designing, creating visual effects, special effects, sound effects, strategy guides, financing, marketing, promoting, shipping, distrubuting, selling, stressing, wondering, wishing, dreaming, and hoping that the Mass Effect series will be a success... i'm not gonna talk crap about it at all. I'm just gonna do what my sister tells me to do if I get into her car and start complaining about her driving. (she tells me to just shut up, kick back, and enjoy the ride). So i'm just gonna shut up, kick back, enjoy, and appreciate every bit of the years of hard work that many people spent working on this game in order to get it into my hands, and just consider myself lucky that I got a chance to play it.  Since I don't have any technical skills to create a video game, and don't have a company to produce, promote, and sell a video game either, imma just say "good job" to the team at BioWare who put this game together. (well done). So, for this reason too.... it doesn't suck.3) Most rpg's come from japan, and while japanese rpg's are extremely good, I wish they'd stop cluttering up the entire screen during battles with a menue system. (for example: final fantasy 13, uggghhh~!!!). I'm sick and tired of... "FIGHTING IN THE MENUE SYSTEM" ...and having to CONSTANTLY access it in order to do something. It&#65279; takes away the fun of playing the game. The japanese need to learn from western type rpg's and not "over complicate the game play" as games like Fable and Mass Effect have already figured out and are now doing. Now... does this mean that gameplay should be dumbed down? NO!! I dont think that gameplay should be dumbed down to just simple button mashing so that a person with the attention span of a pineapple can enjoy playing it. I just wish that what I see on screen isn't constantly blocked by too much "words & numbers" that really don't mean anything to me.  Visually, I wanna appreciate what I see on&#65279; the screen without words and numbers getting in the way. So, since Mass Effect 3 doesn't over complicate their battle system... it does not suck.And so... for these 3 reasons... Mass Effect 3... does not suck.
It was a great ending to an epic video game trilogy.  It mixed in new and old characters and always seemed to have extra twists and turns.  Hugely disappointing ending choice, though.
Added 4-25-2012: First - You MUST play this game at least two times! Play once, then play around 100 multiplayer games. Then play it again. Why? You'll learn to use your powers, won't overload with un-needed or under-used weapons, and play much better. Plus you can make different choices and open up new avenues of exploration and new dialogs. Plus, you just may play new character types. I always went with soldier because of the weapon types.  Now I almost exclusively use sniper rifles and handguns, so can try other character types. Plus you can keep an eye out for clues to the ending - there are several! At one point, Liara asks if Shepard had ever thought about what would happen if the Relays were destroyed.--------------------------------------------------Gameplay: Fun, great sound, nice cinematics. There were a few times when the game took control for preset encounters, where Shepard and whomever he was talking to were in really awkward positions - looking over their shoulders in opposite directions, bumped up against walls, etc. The battle with the Harvester where Shepard had to LASER paint the Reaper - the final scene froze the game three times.Weapons: Some fun, new, cool toys. The Graal Spike Thrower shotgun is a blast, as is the Scorpion - I find myself using the Scorpion the most. It's just fun to watch the baddies explode into gory piles of goo. Or shatter. The mods are a welcome return, and the way they are implemented is pretty much like Dead Space - you need a weapons bench.  Unlike Dead Space, they are all over the place, including the Normandy.Ammo: plentiful. I never ran out - sure my assault rifle may go dry, but I could switch to another weapon. You'll find ammo all over the place, including spare grenades.Exploration: Not as rewarding as previously, or as in say, Bioshock.  If I wander around and explore every nook and cranny, I want to be rewarded. Only happens occasionally here. You have to explore to find mods and upgrades, but it should be more rewarding. More credit stashed perhaps? The DLC does have more stuff stashed around the place.Paragon/Bad-Azz dude: I really wish the text choices we were given matched what Shepard actually said or does.  Often they seem opposite or nonsensical. Sometimes they are obvious - highlighted in red or blue.  Most times, they are not.Killing people off: Why? Some deaths were pointless. Won't get into details, but you'll find yourself with several WTF?!? moments.Choices: Results are often nonsense. There's a point where you have to select between two races. Pick race A, and race B will try and destroy them - race B gets wiped out. This is idiotic - there's no reason for race B to make this choice. Sleep with person A and person B gives you the could shoulder - even though there's no way she could have known.Battles: Most are pretty good, not overly challenging. There was one "no win" battle - it took me a few tries to realize this and change the goal from killing them all to finishing the mission. The solo fight with the Reaper I mentioned earlier - pretty silly.DLC: So far the only DLC is the first day release. You can skip it.  There was about 15 minutes of game play, and the character was not that great. If it was free or $2 - but not $10!Movement: It's a little quirky. Shepard tends to spin around too much and it's a little tricky to align him with people just right so he interacts. You get the hang of it eventually, but it should not be that quirky. The running/shooting/ducking/jumping is much refined and a blast.Battle Center: Never went above 50% readiness. I collected 90% of the junk lying around the galaxy, completed all but 7 of the side missions (and those were minor), and had my forces maxed out.Other quirks: When our Ninja Assassin goes after the Prothean AI, the AI announced "indoctrinated presence detecting" and declares that defenses are activated. Nothing happens. Another character (I'm staying generic to avoid spoilers) - I had him/her make a choice. We find out his/her eventual fate later on. Again, lame. Makes no sense. The character was asked "are you xxxx" - the character answered "yes" and was shot.  Why would you answer "yes?!?" Why not hide - there were plenty of places - and lots of time. The writers seemed determined to kill off anyone Shepard interacted with in the previous games. When you have the final showdown with the Elusive Man, well lets just say he was way too easy to deal with.Ending: I agree with the other reviewers. It seemed sloppy and contrived. Again it's too black and white. The two choices given are bizarre. First time through I chose the "left/good (blue)" option because I saved the species involved. I'll play it again, but I'll select to save different species during gameplay and pick the right/bad option.  I don't know why they consider one good and the other bad - the results of the "good" option are pretty dramatic, and the final wrap-up, set far in the future is bizarre. It assumes no advances in space travel - really? With all that Reaper tech lying around? There's plenty of controversy about the ending - one I find diabolically clever if true! If you decide to control the Reapers, you are actually indoctrinated by them.The final screen: Basically an ad to buy DLC so you can continue Shepard's legacy.  Really? I played 30 hours for an advertisement?Overall it was fun to play, and it did recognize choices from the previous games (I saved the Rachni, did not blow up the Harvester base, etc.)Oh yea - ever wonder what a Prothean sounds like? A Rastafarian.2nd Playthrough: You start out with the basics, as in the first playthrough, and little cash. But as soon as you start collecting weapons you'll have cool upgraded versions. I upgraded all my weapons to level V - highest available.  Picked up a rifle - and it was instantly at level VI. As soon as I was able to switch out weapons, I had access to all my previous playthrough weapons - but not the mods - but the mod effects I had chosen previously were in effect.  Once I found some mods, all mods from the previous playthrough were there.  I was awarded around $50,000 once I hit the citadel. I'm intentionally making different choices than the previous playthrough. It's almost like a different game. I have two more additional people on my team choices. I've seen at least 5 minutes of new video. Several new missions. Cool!Muntiplayer: A blast, although it is a bit of another money grab on the part of Bioware. To really survive in the multiplayer game, you need supplies and upgrades. You can earn credits by playing, or just spend $$ for them. You need to visit the "store" for supplies, and can spend from $1 to $4 for supplies - and purchase several at a time.  Or spend 5,000 to 80,000 game credits. Bioware is making a fortune from this, and I feel a bit reamed.  You should be able to pick up these items in the game - not pay for them.  Aside from that, gameplay is more fun than GOW3. I've tried all the classes and have settled on a human engineer. That combat drone has a "deer in the headlights" effect on Brutes, husks and most importantly, Banshees.My biggest complaint: EA servers keep going down.  Happens every three or so games. Any credits (real money or earned in-game) you spend on "consumables" are then GONE!
I loved the game, the story, the gameplay, the erotic scenes,and the upgrades of both Sheperd's powers and his weapons. The multiplayer is a four man cell (team) surviving 11 waves of enemies. It is fun and when you play enough it's just like getting money from your parents and buying a pack of playing cards. What I mean is the multiplayer lets you earn &#34;credits&#34; and with these credits you can buy booster packs for your multiplayer character. The pack can consist of new weapons, character appearance mods, weapon upgrades, power upgrades, ammo upgrades, new weapons, and new weapons mods. I find myself playing the multiplayer game and making new friends with it.
It was absolutely amazing until the end. I am posting this review strictly to lower the rating because I am so upset about the laziness involved with the ending. I hope they do something to fix this. Otherwise they may have lost another dedicated fan since the beginning.
A great game for the most part throughout. I do have some minor gripes about enemies, gameplay and lack of creativity with characters returning from ME1/ME2 with them still wearing the same attire from last game. The game made it feel like it was building to a massive conclusion. Obtaining war assets is a mindless task for the most part, but it felt like it was going to payoff in the end.Ultimately though it is the end that fails miserably for one of my favorite franchises of all time. I felt like I had to write this because of how much love I have felt for the franchise and the characters that didn't get a proper conclusion. There are many reviews about it so I won't go into great detail but I had to put my 2 cents in. Great game, great franchise, but one of the worst endings in the history of endings.On a side note though the MP is fun.  I do enjoy it quite a bit.  I won't play through the entire game again because the ending was so bad, but the MP has added some replay value for me.
I am just not a huge fan of this type of RPG.  I like the story elements, but the RPG side of these series of games has gone down the toilet.  It took me several months on ME II to get into the game enough to finish it.  For me, it was a huge step backwards.  They took out the exploration portion and placed your toon in a corridor and added some cut scenes and fights here and there to the story arc conclusion at the end.  The third in the series has taken this to the next step and reduced much of the content to move a little bit, shoot some baddies, etc. etc., end and debrief.  I just can't really get into it.  Why not just watch a movie instead?  I loved Skyrim and those types of games and I wish they would do a version in space that was more of a sandbox instead of the theme park trend that the ME series has gone down.The graphics and sound is good, I didn't mind the new talents and leveling process, but I just had a hard time getting through it.  In the first game I could play for hours, second one maybe a mission or two if they seemed good.  On this one I had a hard time completing one mission in a play session.  Its so scripted, nothing you do matters a whit.  The ending was a let down as well, though I really don't care as much about that in I wish the game itself had more depth to it.Too bad too, the series started off so well.
great game. see my review for the PC version. The multiplayer is tons of fun as well and keeps me coming back for more. I really enjoy all the free extra content they've created for the game. The variety of character and powers are great. As are the great variety of equipment. Really love multiplayer, almost as much as the single player.
What can I say&#8230; This is one of the best RPG out there, I'm a big fan of the Mass Effect Universe, it&#8217;s immersive, addictive and full of surprises &#8230;I strongly recommend you to play this with a imported Shepard. I played it like 4 times, two with a new character and the las two with an imported ME1, ME2 Shepard; the experience was completely different, the choises i made took effect in ME3...By the Way, the ending is good, see it for yourself!
First of all, this is not a bad nor average game. The only thing, the only thing that sucks about this hit is the ending. I understand how some may beat it down and feel let-down , but we have to be fair. The controls, story, graphics, gameplay, everything is awesome. If you like the others you will enjoy this one. Just be prepared to not like the ending. Too bad because this is my favorite trilogy and game series this console generation. But don't let that stop you from experiencing this game. 3 stars ? wow.
Face it... You played the first two games, so you're not going to pass this up because someone says "The ending sucked!". this is a great franchise and a great game. When I ordered this from Amazon,I started re-playing the 1st two games to get prepared. I played all 3 games back to back and was never bored for a moment. I for one didn't have a problem with the ending. I had too much fun with the Journey. I plan to play a couple other games and restart this trilogy as a renegade and play to the ending.
This review contains no spoilers.By now, most people who have played Mass Effect 3 have come to have a problem with ending of the game, and not without reason. However, I think to be fair, the first 50 hours of gameplay can't be ruined by the last 15 minutes or so. It does feel like a misstep though. While playing, there are a lot of inside jokes and references to things from the past two games, and quite a bit of time is devoted to really fleshing out your past crew members and some of the important choices you have made in the past two iterations.I say "some" of the choices, because when certain choices are addressed in the game, it felt to me like BioWare tried really hard to whittle down the possible cut scenes, while also trying to provide the backstory to those choices for people who have not played Mass Effect 1 or 2. If you have played Dragon Age you will know what I mean. Like where no matter which dialog option you choose, you will get the same response from whoever you re talking to, because it is worded in a vague way where it makes sense regardless of what you say, and the only difference is whether what you chose to say affects your standing with that character in a positive or negative way. However, because we should be able to feel like our choices have mattered, those generic expository reactions from your allies feels really out of place. For instance, I chose to save the Rachni Queen in Mass Effect 1. Then, when it gets brought up in game 3, Shepard asks "The Rachni...aren't they extinct?" And all the while I am thinking "Come on, Shepard, don't you remember effing saving them in game 1, why are you asking such a stupid question?" It breaks down my suspension of disbelief where I should be engaging with the story, and if I had a complaint, that would be the biggest one. There are a few instances of things like that, and while I completely understand why BioWare did it that way, I think they could have done it better. If someone is going to pick up game 3 without playing the first two, they should have to read codex entries to catch up, and give the devoted fans a unique gaming experience instead of a generic one-size-fits-all cinematic that falls flat. While you can definitely argue its merits in terms of story and gameplay, Alpha Protocol did an excellent job of creating a unique experience every time you played it. In fact, I don't think I could do two identical playthroughs of it if I actively tried. And that is because all of your choices do matter. I think one of the problems with Mass Effect 3 isn't that your choices don't matter at all, it's that they don't matter very much. It's a bit too late to go back and fix it now though, unless they re-did the entire game. That is wishful thinking on the part of fans of the series. I think we are going to just have to try to make peace with what we have.So I guess I should also talk a bit about the ending (without spoilers). It seems to be quite convoluted, to me. And what it really feels like is that there was about 30 minutes of cut-scenes that were removed from the ending, and I'm not sure why. I think that is the second reason what people really feel like their choices don't matter that much, because we're not really shown anything that can bring closure and tie the game off nicely. And a minor annoyance to me was that the continuity of your squad members sometimes gets all screwed up. Like you choose your squad at the end, and then after you complete the game you see a cut-scene and both of the ones I chose were in it, and I was just like, weren't they with me down on the planet?However, to be fair the game, it does a lot of things right, and because of that, I don't think it's fair to dismiss the game or give it one or two stars just because the ending was weak. As with Fable 3, I enjoyed the vast majority of the game, until the ending, but just because the end of both games left me wanting more, I can't call the games bad and disregard all of the things they did well. And Mass Effect 3 did a LOT of things well, even for its shortcomings.The tone is set right away, and it is very effective. Clint Mansell scored the game, and it is gorgeous. Very dark but with moments of raw emotion. The opening of the game will be nothing new to those who played the demo, since it is essentially the same thing only with more dialog options and a longer cut-scene. As with the end of Mass Effect 2, game 3 does a superb job of setting up that this is really it, and things are looking very bleak.Your past crew members are all revisited, and are all given a generous amount of time so that we understand them better and care about them more. All of the instances are pretty effective, and I even found myself caring about what Jacob had been up to, even though I still find him to be very flat and uninteresting. But besides that, there are a few cut-scenes devoted entirely to having emotionally engaging moments with your crew. I think BioWare didn't have to do that, and I'm a bit surprised they did. But I also think the game is fantastic because of it. That is why you are fighting this seemingly hopeless war, to protect that kind of camaraderie.  A few new minor characters are even introduced, and they are all quite good.The gameplay is very smooth, and the action, while I still felt there was an excess of it, is streamlined. I had a few problems with my character either moving into or coming out of cover when I didn't want them to, but other that that, I didn't experience any problems. I think this is also the most difficult Mass Effect game to date. I played on Insanity the first time through, and I died quite a few times. There were segments of game 2 that I thought were difficult, but mostly those were boss battles. In this game there were numerous times where I felt overwhelmed just by normal fights. And maybe that's why I felt like there was too much action (You don't need to have constant action to have an engaging story, BioWare!), because most of it was difficult.The graphics are an upgrade from the second, and it looks really good. Everything seems darker and more defined now, but because the story is also pretty dark, I think it helped reinforce the tone. Graphics should never take center stage though, so that's all I'll say about them is that they look nice.References to the past two games are numerous and to me, having played both of them multiple times, were very welcome. BioWare even breaks down the third wall a couple of times and pokes fun at themselves. And it's really good to see that a developer can look at choices they made in the past and see how it might not have worked like they wanted it to, but also not get all defensive about it, and don't mind a little self-deprecating teasing.I have not played as female Shepard yet, so I can't speak to her voice acting, but I actually didn't mind male Shepard's voice acting this time through. It's never been bad, per se, just flat and boring. This time I didn't notice much of that, which is good, because it's one of those things that can constantly be disengaging you from a game, if you're spending the time rolling your eyes at how lines are delivered (or written, sometimes).As unfulfilled as some people may feel at the ending, I don't think the rest of the hard work on this game can be discounted fairly. Tens of thousands of man hours went into making this game, and most of the work was superb. While I am part of the group that feels like the ending should have been different or had different choices, I can't give this game a low rating just because that 1% of the game was weak. It is an important 1%, no question, but we really can't always have what we want. And in terms of enjoyment ratio, I genuinely loved about 90% of the game. And while I feel that is entirely the right of anyone else to give the game a low rating because of the ending, I choose to focus on the overwhelming reasons the game is incredible in spite of the ending.
I absolutely love this series to death. Except that like most of everyone else, the ending is just not good at all. Soooo much is missing.The whole game felt small.. sooo quick.. I felt cheated out of the 59.99 I spent plus the DLC I bought.I'm sad that things ended this way and that all that time invested has been wasted.
The game itself is fun, but like so many have said before, its the ending that is a huge let down. Its not even the actual ending that happens, its the lack of endings that I find to be the problem. If the true ending was just one of the many endings it wouldn't of been a big deal at all, but it is the only ending. One ending for a game about choices, so basically your choices don't matter and it doesnt change anything in the end. I really don't understand how Bioware could let this happen. They have such a good rep, and now all fans will be questioning if the games they put out will be worth investing in. This series was excellent, a truly beautiful gaming experience, until the end. I think we all no what that means, like watching a really great movie but the ending sucks, well that makes the whole movie suck. Its the same here. Whats the point in playing the games over if there is only one ending. Very disappointing. Game of the year just went to failure of the decade.
This game just arrived, and my son is still playing, I did get to play just a little before his friend came over. They are having a blast. Game is great, Mass effect, can't believe this is the last game. Maybe I can play it when he goes to school tomorrow, and write another reveiw of my own. Game is very detailed, and I like how they give the kids a choice of what to do.
Listen I've loved the Mass Effect games since the first one came out in 2007.  I loved it so much I got my cousin to track down a copy of the collector's edition so I could have it proudly sitting on my shelf.  This is a game series that allows you to mold the universe to what you want it to be.  Your Commander Shepard is yours in looks, gender, and actions.  I was beyond excited for the final installment of the trilogy to come out and even took 3 days off work to play.  The beginning of Mass Effect 3 sets up a dark tone for the game.  You have to make some of the most gut wrenching decisions ever and there isn't always a clear right or wrong path to take as in previous Mass Effects.  Everything comes to a climatic head when most of your plans have started falling apart on the battlefield and you have one last ditch effort to take to save Earth and the universe with her.  The ending of the game is a bit of a sore spot with me still.  While the game does a great job up until the end of finishing up various storylines that have gone on since the first game to giving closure to certain character's stories.  The ending instead leaves a lot of new questions to be answered because the choices you are given for the ending are not the best in the world (literally).  Here's the thing, while the various endings of the game definitely left me feeling disappointed they don't take away from the fact that Mass Effect 3 is an outstanding game and shines the brightest of all in the trilogy.  While I understand there is anger and outrage in the fan community because of the end that doesn't mean the game deserves the amount of "review bombs" it's getting.  I would still highly recommend this title and my best advice is to do yourself a service and play all 3 games if you can to get the whole rewarding experience.
This game ruined a great series I wasted my money buying it and only plated once, this game is awful!
16 ending, all 95% the same lol, no choice. I give the game a 4, I am done pe-ordering games. This is an EA money grad to there no point to the game everyone dies and the fleet is left to die in earth orbit from starvation, well unless you buy the future DLC.
The mass effect series is one of my favorite series I have ever played. I love the story, the character interactions, the missions, etc. This is truly a great series finale. Each installment has gotten bigger and better. There are a ton of missions and side quests in the installment, probably as many as the first two games combined.Story: The reapers have invaded earth and the galaxy. It is up to you to rally up all the species for one final showdown.Gameplay: Action RPG and 3rd Person Shooter, similar to the previous two installments. You traverse the galaxy using your spaceship. You can walk around your ship, the citadel, other planets, etc. While in your ship, you can explore solar systems. This includes scanning planets and launching probes to gather information and supplies. The only difference in this game is the scans can attract the reapers so you have to leave the solar system before they catch you. You can interact with all of your party and most of your crew. The main missions include every species we have seen throughout the series including the Krogan, Salarians, Turians, Geth, Asari, Quarians, etc. all while battling the elusive man and Cerberus and the Reapers. You have to resolve conflicts and get as many species on board to help the final confrontation against the Reapers. While on missions, the gameplay turns into a 3rd-person shooter with multiple weapons and a cover system.Conclusion: While I know there is lots of frustrated gamers and controversy surrounding the ending of the game, I do not believe that has any affect on the rating of this game. The story is still great and although the extended cut DLC did improve the ending a little for me, I don't think it was needed. I couldn't come up with a better ending myself that solved all the problems. I mean this is not as simple as one of those &#34;the good guys win&#34; scenarios. There are consequences to every outcome of the battle and no one ending is going to satisfy everyone. The gameplay is incredible, the missions, the dialogue, the conflicts, Cerberus- it all adds up to a great game. I truly felt the weight of the galaxy as I played through this game.
I'm SOOOO Disappointed!Updated: 3/26/2012As stated by others, I am a ME1, ME2 game importer. Luckily some of my games imported correctly (2 of my 5 ME2 games don't show up as importable options). After that however, all down hill. All my squad members from 2 are basically cameos and only a few from 1 are playable, and the real kicker is some get killed off, and you can't pick who survives (i.e. kiss Mordin, Thane, Miranda, Legion,  and most likely Tali goodby). Yep that's wanted by fans, kill off the characters we love after we can't even play them anymore, that's real nice.I have seen all "3" endings (12 distinct endings, if you consider a nuance difference a distinction), all of which are just different representations of the same 1 cut scene. the differences boil down to lighting differences and the number of squad-mates that step off the busted Normandy at the end.Voice acting is on par but the dialog scripts are out of place and the script in general seems like it was piece-meal, Loading screens are hacked, you have to switch between disc 1 and 2 so often it hurts.I am not typically a fan of multi-player, but I am enjoying this games multi-player, if I forget about the EA store and how evil that whole concept is. Basically, you need to buy stuff in the store, for credits or "CASH". If you choose not to spend cash you will be waiting for a LONG time between good gear. Many of the items you get in the store are SINGLE equip items. That means that after you use them on one mission they are gone, time to spend more money.Without a new ending, I am so over this series because of this game.I recommend waiting until this game hits $20 or Bioware changes the ending before getting it, save your money.Update,RANT:I agree with those saying, you ought to play it... When you can get it for less than 20 bucks or they drop a FREE dlc to correct the busted ending. This is by far the greatest of the three games insofar as continuous closure to existing open ideas from the first two games and  the mechanics are great. But when you get to the ending, wow it couldn't be more abstract and meaningless. Don't let Bioware get away with this, I bet they intended to change the ending all along, that means with the day one DLC and a paid NEW ending DLC the standard edition of this game will weigh in at $79.99 for a compete product. THAT is not fair and ought not stand with fans.Update: 4/5/2012I cannot in good conscious raise my review score at this point, Bioware has clearly stated that they no longer think their fans matter... They have therefore just lost one in me.Simply google "MASS EFFECT 3 EXTENDED CUT" it will be the top hit.From the Bioware Blog"So there you have it. Are we proud of the game we made and the team that made it? Hell yes. Are we going to change the ending of the game? No. Do we appreciate the passion and listen to the feedback delivered to us by our fans? Very much so and we are responding."ME1 had the Hammerhead that you had to take down to a planet to explore and find crashed probes and then there was a mini game to unlock/retrieve the thing in the probe, that was my favorite way to get resources, EXPLORATION 101, because driving around in a cool tank and looking for stuff on a new planet is FUN.ME2 had you scanning every planet in every system looking for anomalies and resources, when you found an anomaly you were in luck, mini mission. There were still mini games (Hack and Bypass) to unlock stuff. That still rocked and the mini games in ME2 were better in my opinion, but I really missed the hammerhead and all the exploration that went along with it, still a strong game and a close second to the first game in my book.In walks ME3, 0-RPG, no mini games at all, all of the exploration is reduced to hitting the trigger in a system until the reapers show up and chase you away, then you need to do a mission and go back and try again, BLAH! This game is the an example of everything ME1 and ME2 were not, and that is a very bad thing for many of us who loved the first game and what it exemplified.I am sad...
Yeah, it is how I feel. Imagine your mom gave you a puppy for your birthday, and three years later said - enough is enough, let's end this trilogy - and crack, just broke his neck. I would feel like I suddenly got disconnected from reality, a very bad trip in progress.I loved ME 1&2, I cared about my Shep and my squad, I tried to be so freaking upright, and save as many as I possibly could. And for frigging what? I don't know, may be Bioware made such an ending (and essentially there is only one) for a shock value, but I really don't appreciate when all my efforts in the game just went down the drain. It is a freaking PSYCHOLOGICAL ABUSE of fans - first, you set certain expectations, and enforce certain feelings, and then suddenly crash them. I did not want to write a review, a game till last 30 minutes deserves 4 stars, but this ending thing should be punished, and my 1 star review is a small contribution I can make.
Just finished playing the game, I thought it was fantastic. The multiplayer part annoyed me a little to have it hooked into single player, but I felt the game was strong enough to overcome all that and in the end I actually had fun with multiplayer. the ending was just ok but the overall game kicks ass.
The entire pitch of this game was that our decisions mattered. They did not. This game has as linear of an ending as they come, it's extremely disappointing.
Mass Effect 3 is the biggest video game  let down I have experienced in years. My excitement for the game was insane, and the end result was nothing short of hilarious. I spent over 100 hours and over $300 on this franchise, and I am very angry. This game is a let down from start to finish. The game does not have enough dialogue options, you don't get to explore big interesting area you are either in a battle or on the Citadel. Side quests are AWFUL and I mean god damn AWFUL you acquire side quests by wandering like an idiot on the Citadel and "eavesdropping" on people...seriously?! what's wrong with plain old talk to the NPC way? and worse side quests are not kept in a nice organized way in your journal..and you don't get to "mark" a side quest as active either..and you don't get info on where to go or what to do..you have to recall what the conservation was when you automatically acquired it..and a lot of side quests EXPIRE if you don't do them quickly..ugh.And don't get me started on the ending..its beyond bad. I am open minded when it comes to ending, I can take tragic, happy or anywhere in between. But this game..its just terrible..it does NOT make ANY sense..its totally against what the series has been about...and you have almost NO control over what occurs..isn't Mass Effect series about choices and consequences?! MY Shepard would NEVER do what I saw him do on the screen...I just watched helplessly in horror..Its sad..really sad. There was a time when I associated the brand Bioware with quality..I used to buy their games without even a single review because I knew how good they are. Now don't get me wrong every Dev make a bad game or two..and this is Bioware's second fall after DA2..and what really angers me is that they are CHOOSING to make their games awful by being lazy (DA2) and ridiculous (ME3). Therefore whatever Bioware's next game is, they will have to earn my money.
Okay, maybe you didn't like the ending, but there is no way you can justify giving this game 1 star. It's some of the highest quality work in the gaming industry I have ever seen. I wasn't happy with the ending either, but it by no means ruined the entire 100 hour Mass Effect Trilogy. Also, Bioware are actively listening to your "Feedback" (whining) and are going to adjust the game to satisfy everyone... so shut up, will you?Okay, now that that's over with: Mass Effect 3 is the best game in the series. The gameplay has been refined to incorporate the best elements of the first two games while adding some new twists that really improve the experience. Biotics feel more powerful, weapons more responsive, and upgrades are more rewarding. The graphics are noticeably improved. Facial animations are much more realistic. The storytelling is flawless throughout. It no longer feels like Paragon/Renegade choices and more like two (or more) right answers that have a downside. You'll be scratching your brain and trembling with fear as you decide what to do.Look, it's a good game. The production values are astonishing, it plays well, the acting is good, the music is good, and it's fun to play. It doesn't completely stick the landing at the end, but that doesn't mean it's not worth playing.
The multiplayer is actually pretty fun.The actual game is exceptional. It's the right lenght, great graphics, excellent gameplay, ok story, a little restrictive .The problem is, I cannot play this damn game..There is a bug for Xbox users that makes the game unloadable with your xbox gamertag. Fortunately for me, i beat the game in like 2 weeks before this problem arose. IF you dont believe me just google mass effect 3 black screen of death. This problem has been since the game has launched. Buyin this game as a xbox owner is like russian roulette. Your copy may decide not to work after a few days, few weeks, or it might have no problems at all. The manufacturer has yet to fix this problem. from thomas abrham, bioware moderator: Hey everyone,This issue is still a top priority of ours and we are still investigating it. If the most recent patch has fixed this issue for you could you please PM me (as well, if it reverts to the BSOD please inform me as well). this is from april 11, 2 months ago.So if u want to roll the dice for a $40 coaster go right ahead. The game is great when it did play.The ending is not as bad as all the nerds say it is.
I bought this game right when it came out. It had good reviews from the "mainstream" media and I liked ME1 and ME2. I played those games over and over again picking different decisions to see how it affected my game. This is the whole point of an RPB (Roll Playing Game). I paid full price, but now I wish I would have waited and bought it on sale or used. This game is NOT worth full price. A lot of people have talked about the endings and, yes, that is the main problem with the game. But, I have played a lot of games with poorly written endings and have still liked the game. Unfortunately, with this game it only emphasizes that most of the game is pointless and makes the replay value close to zero.First off the game is short 25-30ish hours. To me this is a tad pricey when there are other games on the market with 200+ for the same price. There are not a lot of "side" quest were you are part of the action. A lot of the side quest is scanning planets for war assets. This on its own would have OK, because you are let to believe that everything you gather will "help" in the end. Well, it does not. And you feel like a fool spending hours gathering, scanning, and searching for every asset for well, nothing . . .Second: There is a "magic" number of "Ready" points (don't even get me started on this) you need to hit for all the available endings (and by all, I am talking about the one with the slight variations). This can be made up (if you missed any scanning or side quests) with the use of Multi player NOT what you do in game.  This leaves a big part of the game pointless to play.Third: Noting matters in the end. Whatever I did from games 1-3 (up to the last: 30 or so) makes no difference in the end. It's only your "Ready" score.  I just played a single player RPG and the only difference in the ending is based on a score that I can play multiplayer to make up. And to rub salt in the wound the endings are almost the same so play through again or with different imports is almost meaningless. I planned on play 3 different imports to see how the ending changed (something that was a marketing highlight), but, well, it's pointless now.So, for me not worth the price and does not have a high replay value.With that said. It is a fun game and if you are a fan of the ME games you will love it, just don't play the last: 30 or so. You have to use your imagination anyway for the end (Yes, this is even what the writers said they wanted) so, best start once you hit Earth and save yourself the pain.My recommendation, yes, buy the game, it I as fun (until the last: 30) game, but NOT at full price. Buy it on sale or used. I wish I did. (And don't trust the "mainstream" media . . . there are some major flaws in this game, none were pointed out in the pre-release reviews)
I have played probably 10 hours or so and the game is awesome! I dont know how some of these guys have finished it already makes me wonder if they dont have a life or no job. The game is great it pulls you in a never lets go. I havent played the multiplayer only the sigle player because im curious how its all going to end.
I'm on the fence about whether or not I like games that feel like you're playing a movie but in this case they pulled it off and the result was phenomenal. I appreciate the fact that a lot of people were upset by the game ending choices but I don't understand taking an excellent game with great graphics, great mechanics, amazing story and few or no bug's that will entertain you for probably 35-50 hours and giving it a poor rating because you don't like one of several ending choices they give you. If you factor in that there is no intended direct sequel to this then I really don't understand it. If you bought a car you thought was amazing but you didn't like the seats in the car would it suddenly become a POS? If you play an amazing game that a lot of time was obviously invested in and enjoyed yourself does the game suddenly suck because you didn't get the ending you wanted? This game is worth playing and I'm sure you won't be disappointed by graphics, mechanics, entertainment or story.
So I started Mass Effect for the first time at the beggining of this month knowing about the controversial ending of ME3. I beat all three in this months time (with VERY in-depth play-throughs) and have to say. What was the big deal? The ending was fine! Definately one of the top 5 franchises I have ever played.  I gave this game a fun review of 5 because it really was one of the most fungames ever.  However I took away one star from overall because, yes, this game was rushed a little.  If you actually think about it there are only the N7 Missions and Priority missions (with a couple extra citadel missions) that could actually be considered missions.  The rest are simply going to all galaxies and finding Artifacts and missing people.  And as for the ending.  THe last scene where Shepard asks the child about the options, for once in the series of Mass Effect, I felt as if the voice acting was extremely lacking.  This lack in acting really brought down my mood for the ending.  However, the idea of the ending was still very good and like Bioware insisted, it was artistic.  There are plenty of other media sources thathave had endings like that.  For one, The Matrix.  The ending of reloaded was completely and extremely out of the hat random and unexpected.  What do they have in common.  All thwarts of interest in the hero mean nothing once you get to the end of the story.  The universe is going to change drasticly and no one had a effin clue.  Another issue people go off is the Indoctrination theory.  I played the game a lot, and not once did I come across that they actually explained it.  ALl i got was machines possess people.  End of story.  It wasn't game breaking to understand it.  If you don't like the game fine; but don't say the ending ruined it.  People say Bioware doesn't love their fans.  THose who say that aren't really fans if they believe that.  Because all you are doing is being unsupportive to how they decided to end it.
As many, many, many others have said, the Mass Effect series was set to be the most amazing sci-fi entertainment experience of our time. And it is, until the ending.  Over the course of the 3 games, you will fall in love with the characters, the story and the sci-fi universe that so much time and talent were clearly poured into.  It's an emotional roller coaster where the stakes are unfathomably high. The decisions you must make get more and more difficult, the repercussions more and more risky and your actions more and more desperate. Everything is riding on you and you will be sucked in before you know it.Then, the developers decided to kill everything. They throw the entire franchise away.  The ending is completely out of left field, full of contradictions, involves a glowing space baby, ignores -- worse, completely invalidates -- all your decisions, and most heart breaking of all, it ruins the beautiful sci-fi universe Bioware created forever.I want to talk a little about the last bit there. Imagine if Return of the Jedi ended with Luke having to activate a mysterious device on the Death Star that would cripple the empire, and everyone else, by sending a "force wave" through the galaxy that would blow up every hyperdrive and droid in existence. Imagine if the last episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation had Picard stopping the Romulans by activating an alien artifact that causes a "warp cascade event", making every dilithium crystal in the galaxy stop working forever, blowing up every star ship, and as a side effect every Vulcan and Klingon would evaporate for some reason.That's what I mean when I say it ruins the sci-fi universe. Star Wars without hyperspace travel wouldn't be Star Wars, it would just be Wars. Star Trek without warp drive would just be nothing, because nobody would be Treking anywhere, between stars or otherwise.  Mass Effect, well, isn't Mass Effect after the ending.If George Lucas had been brought in to think of the ending to The Matrix on the last day of shooting, having never read the script or even heard of the premise behind the film, it would have been a better ending than this. If the movie Alien ended with a talking alien telling Ripley that it finally understood the human emotion of "love", it would have been a better ending than this. If Back to the Future ended with Marty meeting a space baby who tells him he has to murder baby Doc Brown in the past to make the timeline right, it would have been a better ending than this.  Only this isn't the ending to a 2 hour movie. It's the ending to three 40+ hour games where you own every decision the main character makes. It is a ground-breaking new kind of epic disappointment never before experienced in the entertainment industry.Here's how it should have ended: Victory, cheering, a medal, credits. Nothing fancy. Nothing franchise-killing. Just what we were expecting.
I played through the trilogy on single player and am just starting to play through multiplayer with my friends and we still enjoy it.
I really enjoyed ME2, even with its few faults.  ME3 is lesser in every way. Why didnt the major website reviewers pickup on this?Sure, ME3 has lots and lots of actor dialog but the new characters are surprisingly uninteresting (except for Edi who gets the best lines throughout the game).  There's plenty of unique planets to visit but the stories told on each planet arent that interesting.  And the game's over-all story can be done pretty quickly.  And then there's that ending which most folks didnt like (I agree with them). Too many of the combat abilities are just like ME2's: When fighting, I might as well have been playing ME2.Honestly this game is going right back into the re-sale pile: I couldnt care less what the DLC will be --  free or not free.Definitely an unfortunate conclusion to the trilogy.  Let's hope BioWare learned its lessons after disappointing so many with Dragon Age 2 and then ME3.
I love the Mass Effect series, Mass Effect 1 an 2 were overall two the best games ever. Mass Effect 3  though good with less development time than the previous games you can tell it was rushed. Some things that after playing that told me the game was rushed.1.Scripted dialogue: Where in the previous mass effect games you talked to someone and the dialog wheel would come up so you could have a conversation, most of the ones in ME3 were pre scripted, you couldn't choose a response.2:Lack of exploration: You had the Normandy and Citadel to explore and that was about it.3:Most of the choices from the previous games were given little more than lip service or really didn't live up to the promises Bioware made.The Rachni were a good example if you killed the queen in ME1 they were still there in ME3, if you let the queen live and by conversation in ME2 thought they would be a big part in helping you in ME3, they did nothing, it was pretty disappointing.4.Getting war assests was nothing more than going to a system and scanning and seeing a little thing pop up you gained them,and never seen them in action at the end.5.Getting missions to get the aformentioned war assests were mainly you eavesdropping on a conversation some random NPC was having, which was pretty lame.6.If you kept your Ashley or Liara romance Bioware promised something big, they might have had something planned, but it was pretty much the same as the last two games, nothing special.7.The ending, I believe the stories that the two lead writers came up with it at the last minute with no input from anyone else on the writing team, you can tell.Some other disappointing things in the game were the crew choices, you had none of the new crew from ME2 even after doing all those loyalty missions, and if your romanced someone in ME2 it came to nothing in ME3 since they couldn't join you on the Normandy.Why did most of the game have you fighting Cerberus? I thought the Reapers were the main threat, they really should have broke it up to Mass Effect 3 and 4, have you fight Cerberus in ME3 and unite the galaxy for the incoming Reaper threat, with an indoctrinated Illusive man unwitting helping the Reapers by fighting Shepards attempts. And a Mass Effect 4 that had the Reapers big attack.There were some great aspects of the game though, the Genophage and Quarian parts were well written and great, and other aspects of the game with the crew were also fun.In Summary Mass Effect 3 is a good game, just not what it could have been, and is the weakest part of the series, it was like Return of the Jedi or The Dark Knight Rises, Both were not as great as Empire or The Dark Knight and ME3 was a step down from ME2.
Okay, Mass Effect 3 is not a one star game, but neither is it a five star game. I agree the ending was indeed horrible, but there are parts of the game that are compelling. Overall, the controversy that surrounds Mass Effect 3 is the ending and how it makes no sense. I agree it makes no sense. Having a god-child come out of no-where and tell you 'we destroy you to save you', yeah that doesn't make sense now does it. I understand that there has been a lot of arguing about gamer 'entitlement' and how Mass Effect fans had their hopes up about how their choices would matter in the final battle. Well they didn't get that and now their pissed. Can you blame them, because I don't. And for the record THERE IS NO ENTITLEMENT. What Mass Effect fans had was trust, and a lot of it. We trusted Bioware to give us a game that would wrap up the entire franchise they way our choices culminated. That didn't happen, instead we got three color coated endings with a Deus Ex reference and an Adam and Eve allusion. However, Bioware stated many times that there would sixteen different endings and that your decisions would matter over the course of these games. But that was a lie, and lying costs costumer loyalty for future titles. Even the BBB (Better Business Bureau) said that Bioware did indeed falsely advertise Mass Effect 3. So, does this make Mass Effect fans whiny entitled brats that they didn't get what they want. No, Mass Effect fans have every right to voice their outcry against Bioware for lying to them, and calling the ending their 'artistic vision'. If the ending was just some simple happily-ever-after ending; I'm sure the Mass Effect series would still be remembered for years to come.This is how the endings should have played out.-Happily-ever-after(Shepard with Love-interest)-Bittersweet(Shepard sacrifices himself/herself)-Bad Ending(Reapers continue their harvest of galactic civilizations)With that terrible ending though. Mass Effect 3 is still a great game with an okay MP. However, I did not buy Mass Effect 3 for the game-play or the MP. I bought Mass Effect 3 for its compelling narrative. Now, with an ending that sabotages the core of the games story and Biowares unbiased attitude towards fixing it. I just don't know if I'll be there for them when Dragon Age 3 come out. Lets just hope the Extended Cut is the Indoctrination Theory because if not then Bioware will possible face a boycott.
Ok guys i'm writing my review after playing 3 hrs or so of Mass Effect 3.  I'm going to update this review as I go along, if I find anything that strays me from this initial review.Ok a quick background, I play a lot of games for fun but by no means am I a super hardcore.  I consider myself the average consumer who likes to play new video games.  I've only played ME2, loved it, it was a lot of fun.  I loved the epicness of that game.So onto ME3.GAMEPLAY:  In the beginning I feel like it doesn't quite have that epicness punch that ME2 had.  I think since the game is just starting off it's a good thing to put a lot of punch into the beginning, to really excite the player.  Some of the initial gun battles mixed with a ton of cut scenes are kinda dull.  It gradually picks up so it isn't that big of a deal.  After the initial intro you get back into that ME gameplay style, you know what i'm talking about the free roam, flying around the galaxy, choosing which quest to tackle next.  Thats the gravy of this game and i'm glad that it goes back to that style.  A couple things i've noticed...there are a ton of chicks in the game haha, it seems like everywhere I go it's me, a bunch of chicks, and the mexican guy, thought it was kinda funny.  Also i've noticed that this game is extremely blue heavy.  For anyone that has the game just look at all the colors, blue is everywhere, blue lights, blue tints, blue eyes, blue clothes, everything is blue.  I think the developers really like blue, again not an issue just an observation.  One thing I don't like that bothers me is the running mechanics.  I hate that you have to hold down A to run.  In doing so you have to take your thumb off of the aiming thumb stick, which makes it hard to run to a really specific location.  I wish they could make the running button like any other game where you click down on a thumbstick.GRAPHICS:  It's no surprise that this game looks ridiculously good.  I'm on a 40 inch LED tv, everything hooked up with HDMI, etc yada yada and it looks amazing.  The scenes are awesome, some serious eye candy.  There are a couple scenes that I think ME2 did better and looked better but its minimal.AUDIO:  A quick background on my system.  I'm rocking a 5.2 dolby digital surround sound, Onkyo tx-sr309 receiver, Polk audio Tsi100's for the fronts, Polk audio Tsi CS10 center, Energy Take Classic surrounds, Energy 8 inch sub in the rear and a Klipsch 10 inch sub in the front...so I got the audio category covered...and let me tell you there are some scenes that literally almost brought my apartment down (specifically the dream sequence with the kid, if or when you play the game you'll know what i'm talking about).  The surround sound is also really good and puts you right in the action.  The one thing I wish they wouldv'e done (and it might be because i'm spoiled on Battlefield 3's sounds) but the guns to me sound really lame.  I mean i'm shooting an assault rifle and it sounds almost like a pellet gun.  I wish they would put some beefy loud gun sounds.  I want to really rock my system like i do with battlefield 3.  Explosions and the destruction sounds really good, voice dialogue is crystal clear, music is amazing, so everything is there....except for the gun sounds.  But again it's not a big enough deal to warrant a star dropCONCLUSION: So far ME3 is a welcome addition to the series.  Everything is hitting all the right notes for me.  I think since ME2 was my first ME experience it still has that magic, but ME3 is bringing back those amazingly fun memories.  I think the more I play it the more i'll enjoy it.  For anyone on the fence about this game: 1. if you haven't played ME1 or ME2 i would suggest playing those for the full experience (yeah i know i need to play ME1 :D ) and full understanding of the story, 2. if you have played ME before, BUY THIS GAME, I mean how can you play the other ones without playing the conclusion to the story.  Thats it for this review, i'll update the review as I play more and see anything new that I want to add to it.  Cheers
Mass Effect 3 brings the Mass Effect story to a conclusion and does so successfully. Nearly everything in the game works well and adds to the fun. The guns are better, the powers have been upgraded, and even the armor customization continues to evolve. Many beloved characters have returned, and Shepard gets to enjoy the end of the series with them before reaching the end.Speaking of the end, it seems many are unhappy with it. At first I was a bit confused and disappointed as well. After a few completions it grew on me however. What really helped me was going back and playing the first 2 again, especially the first. Hearing random people talk about the keepers and being able to see all the hints. The citadel tower layout being in the shape of a reaper. Reading about the planet Klencory and after hearing a writing team member hint at what the Catalyst actually was  it all made more sense. This made the ending less of a deus ex machina, and brought in Chekov's gun. It may seem odd, but in a way the Catalyst's explanation does make sense. Perhaps the ending was less about having options and more about choosing what is available and making do with what is in front of you. Maybe the Beings of Light were written into the first game as a somewhat hidden way out, a plan for the series conclusion in case other ideas didn't work out. Either way it was a fun experience and I look forward to the Extended Cut, future campaign dlc, and more multiplayer. I believe time will be kind to this game, and opinions will soften as the years pass.
If I had reviewed this game the day after I completed it, I probably would have given it one star based on the atrocious ending.  In terms of bad video game endings, the closest comparison I can make is that of theMonkey Island 2: LeChuck's Revengegame, which was also an excellent game but featured the infamous "the game was just a kid's fantasy while at a carnival with his family" ending.Having waited a week, I can look at Mass Effect 3 with a fresh perspective, and what we basically have is a 5-star classic dragged down to 4 stars because of its ending.While I think the original Mass Effect was the purest RPG of the series- and thus had the best gameplay- Mass Effect 3 plays as great as one would hope and expect.  The only gripes I will mention are three: first, the slightly watered-down RPG elements (perhaps a "necessary evil" undertaken by BioWare to broaden the series' appeal from the second game on).  Second, on a related note, I feel the RPG-lite elements were further diluted because, having imported my character from the first and second games, I was immediately given a huge number of ability points to divvy up among my skills.  As a consequence, I had maxed out my important skills within the first five hours of play, which rendered leveling up less significant than in the other two games.  I liked that the game was rewarding me for playing the first two games, but it would have been better to have more skills to divide my points.  Third, I had three system freezes in Mass Effect 3- the only three freezes I had in the entire trilogy.  This, to me, indicated a lack of polish that the other two games had.Back to the ending - without giving away major spoilers, picture theStar Trek: The Motion Picture - The Director's EditionCaptain Decker ending mixed with religious undertones- Shepard as a Christ-like figure and Joker and EDI as Adam & Eve- add in some major plot inconsistencies involving established concepts like the Mass Relays, the introduction of a new and crucial character completely out of left field, and you have the Mass Effect 3 ending.  Besides being a major downer of an ending, and besides having plot holes big enough to fly the Normandy through, the biggest problem with the ending is that you get essentially the same ending no matter what choices you made throughout the three games.We have seen the BioWare apologists out in the media defending the artistic "vision" for the ending.  Fair enough, but the ending BioWare presented should have been ONE possible ending to the game.  If I played as a Paragon throughout the trilogy, making peace among the various factions throughout the three games, etc., I should been given aStar Wars, Episode VI: Return of the Jedi (Widescreen Edition)orStar Trek (Two-Disc Edition)type of ending.  The argument that "Mass Effect 3" had one- and ONLY one- ending completely violates the principle built up among the three games: that our choices/decisions had consequences.There has been a great deal of recent discussion about the so-called "Indoctrination Theory"- the idea that the ending is simply a ruse, an illusion brought upon Commander Shepard due to his being unknowingly influenced by the Reapers.  This is, I am afraid, wishful thinking; the fact that BioWare is promising DLC this summer providing more cinematic/epilogue scenes for the ending- but (most tellingly) promising nothing about additional gameplay as part of the ending- disproves the Indoctrination Theory rather convincingly.Most likely the DLC will be some token scenes (possibly even static images if EA is too cheap to pay for new cinematics) showing what happened to your various crew members.  Chances are it will satisfy no one, and will end up being Bioware's equivalent of attempting to douse this Internet firestorm of criticism with a tiny garden hose.One famous quote that I think applies here: "a problem is nothing more than an opportunity in disguise".  BioWare can turn this ending outrage around in a second- and win back the praise of its many fans- by offering a new ending via DLC.  Or,  if due to pride or a simple inability to own up to a mistake, BioWare is unwilling to alter the Mass Effect 3 ending, rectify the situation and make a Mass Effect 4 that, in the first 10 minutes of the game, undoes the Mass Effect 3 ending (via the Indoctrination Theory or in some other fashion) and gives us Commander Shepard back in glorious fashion.  Even if a Mass Effect 4 is not even a complete certainty yet, I think many Mass Effect fans (including myself) would be excited about even a vague announcement by BioWare that a fourth game is being planned starring Commander Shepard.  That would be enough of a tacit admission (at least for me) by BioWare that they bungled the ending for Mass Effect 3, and that a fourth game is necessary to rectify the situation.To go back to one of my original points, it took six years for LucasArts to rectify the "Monkey Island 2" ending with the excellentThe Curse of Monkey Island.  Let's hope BioWare follows suit.  Otherwise, I cannot envision re-playing Mass Effect 3 and making different decisions in the story, or getting overly excited about new single-player DLC, when it all leads inexorably to the same conclusion in the story.In summary, I would recommend "Mass Effect 3" to fans of the first two games, but severely lower your expectations for the last 30 minutes of the story....and hope we have not seen the last of Commander Shepard.
Stop for a second. Look at these reviews. Hundreds of one-star reviews, mostly given for narrative reasons. Few are arguing that this game is bad in the traditional sense. No, people are upset by the story and specifically, the ending. You should also note the difference between a bad story and an upsetting story. There are a million games, some of them bonafide classics, that have bad stories. Mass Effect 3 is not one of them. This story is great. People care about this story, this universe, these characters. A whole lot. And that's why people are starting charity campaigns to bring attention to this issue, going to the FTC in an attempt to get the government to force BioWare to create a "proper" ending, and voicing their displeasure all across the internet.BioWare has created a fiction that has inspired more passion than any video game ever and a whole bunch of TV shows, movies, and books as well. These one star reviews are not condemnations, they are the highest of compliments.Before we discuss that controversial ending, let's discuss some other issues, like the barely discussed game play. It's not discussed much because there's no controversy here. It's great. Combat is legitimately fun, even more so than the second game. Cover works better, there's a legit melee attack, and the strategy of your three-character team is at it's peak due to better AI. For the first time in this series, shooting has a weight to it. It's not Killzone 2 or anything, but shooting feels pretty good.There are set pieces in this game big enough and thrilling enough to impress Nathan Drake. The quality of writing (writing meaning individual levels/scenes and dialog) is beyond reproach and the best I've seen from the medium. The momentum of the story throughout the game is PERFECTLY paced. You may not like where it ends up, but you cannot argue with the storytelling. Phenomenal. The voice acting is great, as usual. The graphics are the best in the series and overall the presentation is immaculate. Go back and try the first game again for fun and see how much they smoothed out weird animation glitches and how much more texture there is to ME3 in comparison. It's shocking. Probably the thing about ME3 that upset me the most is the removal of the film grain filter. I got over it somewhat quickly, but I missed the gritty aesthetic the film grain added.All right. The ending. Let's do this. (In a vague and mostly spoiler free fashion.)I thought the game as a whole provided tons of closure. Almost from the very start of the game, characters and conflicts from the very first Mass Effect are getting closure and resolution. Before the final mission even started, I felt I had almost all the closure I needed. I had no need for an ending cinematic that gave me more closure and therefore wasn't disappointed when I didn't really get one. I also have no need for Return of the King's thirteen endings, but perhaps that's just me.I will admit I somewhat understand the feeling that the choices you made in previous games don't affect the ending very much. And it's true, it is a bit disappointing that some of the choices you make throughout this game and the previous two games basically only boil down to a percentage point. I would have liked to see more of a narrative effect from some of those choices.That does not mean that nothing you did mattered. Nothing could be further from the truth. The absolute best thing about the Mass Effect series is that, with a few exceptions, nothing is presented as "right" or "wrong." There are tons of huge conflicts, many differing points of view and none of it is black and white. And you empathize with just about all of it. The most powerful and stressful moments of these games are when they make you choose sides in these conflicts. Through these choices, you form beliefs about the galaxy and the ending puts those beliefs to the test. You are basically shaping the future of the galaxy in the manner that reflects what your Shepherd believes, and all those previous choices you made fully inform the final choice. It's been a week since I've beaten the game and I'm still thinking about the ending.Mass Effect is easily the most important series of games to come out of this generation. It is also the standard for storytelling in video games that I can't imagine being met or surpassed anytime soon. Who knows when we'll see something this ambitious and successful again.
I liked the first two games, and while the last one was fun - it just wasn't as incredible as 2.  The game just seemed to have been thrown together, and desperately needed a better beta test.  I would recommend renting over purchasing.
Got to say, just an average game at best.  Maybe I was expecting too much.  I liked ME1, loved ME2, but found ME3 kind of lacking.  I can't really put my finger on what it was, I can only that I found it to be so.Played the game three times with different imported characters games, and one round of no import character, and found very little, if any, difference in the game play or its options (other than this or that ME2 character being dead).I found it really lame that to get the most war resources (or whatever it's called) achievement; you have to play the online only multiplayer game.I did like that they kind of brought back the weapon mods so to speak. Graphics were good, for me very few gliches if any.And why did they make it so that barrier and fortification, and Sentinel tech shields offer no protection?  I mean I get shot and it affects my shield immediately. In ME2 shields gave you some protection, but now it seems like the only reason to have shields is to purge them for close-up damage.Anyway, ok game, but buy it used!
I'm going to skip all the broad overviews of the games/universe of ME, as if you're reading this you're more than likely a gamer and very familiar with it anyways.Just want to echo the thousands of others who have posted their opinions of this game and the HORRIBLE way it ends the trilogy.  The "because cranberries-left at the altar" person far above me really hit the nail on the head.  Now - I admit that there was basically no way that Bioware could have bested ME2.  ME2 is the pinnacle of their work, and nothing will ever change that.  BUT - ME3.  Ohhhh ME3.  What have you done?I can overlook a lot of things in a game.  I look for the good, and try to ignore the bad.  I could have EASILY done this with ME3 - IF (IF!) the game had provided an epic ending befitting this epic series.  However, unfortunately the end sequence of the game ("suicide in your choice of three flavors", it was well described as by another reviewer) only serves to provide a gateway through which once-enamored fans of the series (like me) will unleash an onslaught of attacks.The Mass Effect series allowed you to build a character through the first two games with whom you had a unique affinity.  This character WAS YOU - your choices, your mistakes, your relationships, your lovers, your morals.  From balls to bones - you knew your character and shaped the galaxy the way you wanted.Then - Mass Effect 3 happened.  You enter into the game a dewy-eyed schoolgirl, expecting ore excellence and meaningful choices to make - and end up getting thrownout with Bioware's garbage in some back alley full of the emotionally depraved.  The whole game - from beginning to end - betrays the gamer.  Betrays your Shepard.  You are thrust into a series of missions and plot twists which all (ALL) have predetermined outcomes, your choices during which making little to no impact.  You keep playing - expecting it to get better.  It doesn't.  Then the game ends in a most ridiculous fashion.Then - after completing it - you start thinking about all the other bad points.  It's like OCD - you can't stop.  The weapon upgrade and modification system in this game is HORRIBLE - with ten different versions of each weapon that you will NEVER be able to afford, and modifications that are complicated and seemingly pointless.  Remember ME2's scanning?  Love it or hate it - it had a purpose.  Occasionally you were rewarded with an exciting side-mission.  In ME3, scanning is reduced down to flying around avoiding Reapers (SO irritating - not at all stimulating or atmospheric), while trying to "scan" planets.  You scan a planet - and a little window pops up saying that you have added the Turian 57th Fleet armada to your "war assets".  Geez.  Thanks.  That was exciting.War assets = one of the biggest copouts of the entire game.  It's like Bioware sat there thinkig "hmmmm - how can we strip out this game to make it easier for us to build?".  INTEGRAL parts of the story that should have been elaborated on (and characters that SHOULD have joined your squad), are sent as little "trading cards" to your war chest.  That's it.  "Oh - you got Mordin Solus?  The Salarian genius who just cured the Genophage?  Yeah well done - here's a little picture of him, and 100 points for your war effort.  Well done."  GAAAAHH!!There are a million other points I could pick holes in this gamewith - but Ihave to go now and take my blood pressure meds.
I was fortunate enough to never be spoiled about the ending, but had heard a lot about how it sucked. New to the series, I made the decision to play through all three and make my own opinion. Coming to the end of ME3, yeah, I was severely confused.The game itself is amazing. Great graphics, gameplay and story.Feeling so unsatisfied/confused with the ending, I took to the internet for help. Luckily, I was able to find a video on YouTube that put together a theory generated by fans using evidence from all three games. This made so much sense and when I looked back, I should have noticed the clues left behind supporting this information.For anyone curious, I have the link. If you haven't played the game, view at your own risk... It is a Major Spoiler. This talks about everything, every detail, including the Very End.For the rest of you, I hope this helps as much as it did me.(Link removed. View on youtube user ACAVYOS and look for theory)
This game is one of my favorites. Best advice I have is getting all the DLC and just loving this game. It's the perfect mash up between Mass Effect 1 and 2.
I think this game receives so much hate for the ending. Overall it's a decent fun game that is not a solid rpg like dragon age origins or fallout 3 or new Vegas but the mix of action elements blend well. Sure the game has its share of issues (planet exploration is nil and the game seems less free than previous installments. Face it the bioware hub formula is outdated and obsolete).All in all this game is fun and a decent end to the trilogy. Definately a good holdover title until fallout 4.
Now before i begins this i would like to say yes the ending sucks but its not the end of the world!PROS-Improved combatHorde mode multiplayerImproved graphics and cutscenesGreat soundGreat customizationgreat charactersAnd now the bad.CONS-No RPG elements. pretty much like ME2Lack of teammates. there are only like 6 (in my play through) some of the characters from ME2 and ME1 are in the game but not playable only Cameos.Online pass.the Ending. now its ok not the worst ending ever but a disappointing ending to say the least.Lack of side missions.The Conclusion.Mass Effect 3 is a great game! a little bit disappointing but its great the multiplayer is awesome for some and not for other. The ending is kinda bad but not worth making this review a 2 star like others. (I gave this game minus 2 stars for the CONS i listed) The lack of playable characters is also a disappointment but ok. The RPG elments are gone just like in ME2 which hardcore ME1 fans will be saddened like myself but if you want a end to the series then play this will you be disappointed but it will still end it for you. and above all have fun. :)
mass effect 3 it is an ok game im not oh my god its amazing but its a game like its what ever with the multiplayer its ok i guess i dont play it as much but yea ok game
Mass effect 3 is a great game, beautiful graphics, strong story with great gameplay and voice acting. Unfortunately when the game ends you have no clues of your team members except three of them who were in the normandy... Shepard had no chance of making it alive where he was guys unless he was superman... Unfortunately he was just a legend and legends have their place in memories.Great trilogy Bioware and EA.
I enjoyed this game even though it did not get great reviews. The story continued to keep me entertained for hours and I thought it was just as good as the other 2 previous games. I would of liked to have seen the story continue.
After so much time invested over 5 years and 3 games, the ending to the trilogy is obtuse and quite frankly silly.  When you see how the series wraps up its epic storyline, you are left wondering if the writers from Lost produced the junk we are left with at the end.
I have a ton of issues with this game. All the RPG leveling of Mass Effect 1 is gone. And now the gameplay is horrid. But I still had a lot of fun. Flows Better and much smoother than other games. The storyline is horrible but flows much better and is more interesting than most games.The ending was the issue. And I will not support a game with a terrible ending. Even though the gameplay and story up until the ending was FUN!
I ordered this game long before the release date (and reading the reviews I'm kind of sorry I did, though I haven't gotten to the end yet). The postal service LOST my first game somewhere in transit, and while Amazon was awesome about replacing the game, they sent me the normal version, without the preorder goodies. Any idea how to go about fixing this?Thanks
